http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-100-days-successful-us-history/story?id=47100880
" I truly believe that the first 100 days of my Administration has been just about the most successful in our country's history," Trump says in his weekly address, released Friday, a day ahead of the milestone. " In just fourteen weeks, my administration has brought profound change to Washington." During the four-minute address, Trump discusses the Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines, the Trans- Pacific Partnership, Justice Neil Gorsuch, his budget-trimming abilities and other topics that have played prominently since he assumed office. " Our companies are doing better –- they just announced fantastic profits -– all because of what's happened in this rather short period of time," Trump says. " And that's just the beginning. We're putting in a massive tax cut for the middle class and for business. It's going to have an enormous effect." " Most importantly, we're bringing back jobs," he says. " You asked the people of Michigan; you asked the people of Ohio; you can ask the people of Pennsylvania. See what's happening. See the car companies come roaring back in. They don't want to leave. They want to stay here. They want a piece of the action." He adds, " The massive Keystone Pipeline, the Dakota Pipeline -– tens of thousands of jobs right there. And so many other businesses. We're really proud of what we’re doing." Of Gorsuch, Trump says, " A truly great judge, Neil Gorsuch, now sits on the United States Supreme Court. Justice Gorsuch is deeply devoted to our Constitution. My Administration is the first in the modern political era to confirm a new Supreme Court Justice in the first 100 days – the last time it happened was 136 years ago in 1881." But above all, he says, is "the renewal of the American Spirit. As long as we have faith in each other, and trust in God, then the sun will always shine on our very Glorious Republic." Trump touted even more success from his first 100 days in an op-ed published in the Washington Post on Saturday. He wrote that he has kept his promise to Americans in his plan to re-negotiation the North American Free Trade Agreement, "remove job-killing regulations," and through increased immigration and criminal enforcement, including an inter-agency group targeting criminal cartels like the gang MS-13. " The White House is once again the People’s House," Trump wrote at the end of the op-ed. " And I will do everything in my power to be the People’s President — to faithfully, loyally and proudly champion the incredible citizens who love this nation and who call this God-blessed land their home."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/donald-trump-mark-100-days-rally-pennsylvania/story?id=47091751
President Donald Trump has tried to shrug off the importance of the 100-day marker, but he's still going to be celebrating it and touting his accomplishments. " It's a false standard -- 100 days -- but I have to tell you I don't think anybody has done what we've been able to do in 100 days so we're very happy," Trump said in the Oval Office on Friday. Trump is celebrating his 100th day in office outside of the White House with a campaign rally in Pennsylvania this evening. The unconventional president is bucking tradition and skipping the White House Correspondents' Dinner, which is also being held tonight. Instead, he's headed to the event in Harrisburg, which is slated to start at 7:30 p.m., the same time as the correspondents dinner. The so-called " Nerd Prom" isn't the only big event happening in D. C. today either, as a protest march about climate change will also be held in the Capitol as well.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-blames-obama-vetting-national-security-adviser-michael/story?id=47089736
Play Susan Walsh/ AP Photo WATCH Obama administration reviewed Flynn's security clearance, Trump WH says President Donald Trump is blaming former President Barack Obama for not fully vetting Trump's former national security adviser Michael Flynn after it was revealed that Flynn received payments from foreign governments without approval from military officials in 2014. In an interview with Fox News released today, the president said that Obama officials bear responsibility for the oversight -- not his own administration, which tapped Flynn for the post. " He was approved by the Obama administration at the highest level. And when they say we didn’t vet, well, Obama, I guess, didn’t vet, because he was approved at the highest level of security by the Obama administration," Trump said. " So when he came into our administration, for a short period of time, he came in, he was already approved by the Obama administration and he had years left on that approval." Both the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House Oversight Committee say Flynn may have broken the law by accepting the payments for giving a speech to Russian state television and lobbying on behalf of the Turkish government. Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, R- Utah, said in a statement that "by all appearances" Flynn violated that law, and asked the secretary of the Army to "make a final determination" on whether Flynn broke it. The Defense Department's inspector general has launched an investigation into Flynn. Documents also show that Flynn was warned against receiving payments from foreign governments without congressional approval by the Defense Intelligence Agency. “ These documents raise grave questions about why Gen. Flynn concealed the payments he received from foreign sources after he was warned explicitly by the Pentagon,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings, D- Maryland, the top Democrat on the oversight panel, in a statement. Flynn maintained a top secret security clearance even after he was pushed out of his Obama administration role at the Pentagon in 2014. Trump also said that he was "disappointed" in how Republicans handled major issues like health care and tax reform. " I’m disappointed that it doesn’t go quicker," Trump said. " I like them a lot. I have great relationships, don’t forget most of them I didn’t even know. But many of them, like the Freedom Caucus, came and I see them all the time, ' We love our president, we’re doing this for our president.' You look at that, you look at the moderates, it’s the same thing. I’m disappointed. I’ll tell you Paul Ryan’s trying very, very hard. I think everybody is trying very hard. It is a very tough system."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/years-white-house-correspondents-dinner-sees-journalism-back/story?id=47089618
White House Correspondents' Dinner taking place without its traditional stars, including the president Play Joshua Roberts/ Bloomberg via Getty Images WATCH ABC News' Rick Klein: White House 'internal staff shakeups' could actually help Trump President Donald Trump is skipping the White House Correspondents' Dinner, marking the first time since 1981 that a sitting president is not attending the dinner, which is hosted by the White House Correspondents’ Association ( WHCA). The dinner is an evening to celebrate the First Amendment and freedom of the press to hold power to account in Washington, D. C. Though in recent years the dinner has featured a plethora of A-list celebrities, this year's event is shaping up to be more subdued, with journalism in the spotlight. Back in February, Trump announced on Twitter his decision not to attend the dinner, one week after he labeled the media “enemy of the American People” and “fake news.” During the campaign, he regularly attacked and berated individual reporters who he thought gave him unfavorable coverage. " Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!" the commander-in-chief wrote in announcing his decision to skip the event. The dinner falls on Trump’s 100th day in office. Instead of dressing up with the White House press corps and schmoozing with Washington insiders, the president will be holding a “big” rally in Pennsylvania for supporters. Before his life in politics, Trump did attend the dinner in 2011, where then- President Barack Obama roasted Trump. Joshua Roberts/ Bloomberg via Getty Images Donald Trump talks with other guests at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in Washington, April 30, 2011. In an interview with PBS's " Frontline," White House adviser Omarosa Manigault pointed to that night as what essentially drove Trump to run for president. In a February interview with Fox News, Trump fondly recalled that he “loved that evening” and “had a great time.” White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told ABC News in a February interview that Trump isn't a “president that was elected to spend his time with reporters and celebrities.” “ I think it's kind of naive of us to think that we can all walk into a room for a couple of hours and pretend that some of that tension isn't there,” Sanders said of the press and the president. “ You know, one of the things we say in the south if a Girl Scout egged your house, would you buy cookies from her? I think that this is a pretty similar scenario. There's no reason for him to go in and sit and pretend like this is going to be just another Saturday night.” A usual highlight of the night is when the president delivers a joke-filled speech, followed by the keynote roast by a famous comedian. Without Trump tonight, comedian Hasan Minhaj, a senior correspondent for Comedy Central’s “ The Daily Show With Trevor Noah,” will be left alone to provide the night’s comedic relief. “ Hasan’s smarts, big heart and passion for press freedom make him the perfect fit for our event, which will be focused on the First Amendment and the importance of a robust and independent media," WHCA president and White House correspondent for Reuters Jeff Mason said in a statement. White House Correspondents' Dinner taking place without its traditional stars, including the president
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-trumps-100-days-numbers/story?id=47093316
Play Carolyn Kaster/ AP Photo WATCH Trump in his first 100 days has struggled to seal the deal with Congress While President Trump's first 100 days in office have produced few major legislative breakthroughs, there are still plenty of statistics to analyze. Here are a few interesting facts and figures, and how some of them compare to those of his predecessor, Barack Obama. At this point in 2009, President Obama had signed 15 bills into law. Despite his administration’s lack of big-ticket legislative successes that the president himself spearheaded, Trump has signed 29 bills so far. Obama, the 44th president, hit the links 29 times in 2009, according to unofficial presidential chronicler Mark Knoller. Trump has already made 21 visits to golf clubs, by ABC News’ count. ( Note: the White House has often declined to confirm if/when Trump has actually played.) Alex Brandon/ AP Photo President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump walk down the stairs of Air Force One as they arrive at the Palm Beach International Airport, April 6, 2017, in West Palm Beach, Fla., en route to Mar-a- Largo. Trump has not yet traveled outside the United States since taking office. By comparison, at this point in his young presidency, Obama had made four trips abroad, his first on Feb. 19 to Ottawa, Canada, according to the State Department. Assuming he doesn’t add any trips before his May 25 appearance at the NATO summit in Brussels, Trump will have been in office the longest number of days, without a foreign trip, since Lyndon B. Johnson, who traveled to Canada 10 months after his emergency swearing-in Nov. 22, 1963. Critics have pointed to the number of executive orders Trump has signed, on things like advancing the Keystone Pipeline, as an abuse of power. Trump has signed 10 more executive orders than Obama did at this point in his presidency (30 versus 20). Obviously, Trump has made history by becoming the first president to also develop a hotel in the nation's capital. But while the hotel there has become the place for Republicans to see and be seen, the president himself has visited three times since his swearing-in. ABC News President Donald Trump speaks at a press conference at the White House in Washington, Feb. 16, 2017. Trump decries the "lying media" and "fake news" but he’s just about even with his predecessor when it comes to official media opportunities. Press secretary Sean Spicer has briefed the press on-camera 42 times, while at this point in 2009 Robert Gibbs held 40 briefings. Trump has done nine news conferences, while Obama had done 12. Both Presidents Obama and Trump sat for one interview with ABC News: Obama with Charles Gibson Feb. 3 (the big news: Tom Daschle’s withdrawal from consideration as HHS secretary), and Trump with David Muir Jan. 25 (when he said Mexico would “absolutely” pay the United States back for the border wall). Trump will have spent 18 nights, just under one-fifth of his first 100 days, at his Florida retreat Mar-a- Lago. As president-elect, Trump said he wouldn’t need to receive the presidential daily briefing, which covers the latest in national security and intelligence issues, every day. And he has held true to that assertion since taking office. The president has received the PDB 48 times, just less than half of his time in office so far, according to ABC News’ analysis. Evan Vucci/ AP Photo President Donald Trump meets with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the Oval Office of the White House, March 17, 2017. He hasn’t traveled abroad yet but Trump has talked to many world leaders. He has had 65 phone calls with them, 13 bilateral meetings in the West Wing, two such meetings at Mar-a- Lago and has written two letters to foreign heads of state. Trump has held two phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin, but he has been in contact the most frequently with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, with whom he has spoken five times by telephone.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trumps-100-days-environmental-policy/story?id=47093836
Play Kristoffer Tripplaar/ Sipa USA via AP Photo WATCH President Trump signs energy independence executive order President Donald Trump’s 100th day in office coincides with planned climate and science marches around the country. The People's Climate Movement, a mega-group with buy-in from Sierra Club, SEIU, NAACP, the National Resources Defense Council and local unions, is planning a protest in Washington, D. C., as well as satellite marches around the country Saturday. The Trump administration has already taken a lot of action that could change energy production, emissions standards and environmental protection in the country. The president and his new Cabinet have taken dozens of steps to keep campaign promises and roll back Obama-era regulations and initiatives. Here’s a look at some of what this White House has done so far: Feb. 16: President Trump signs joint congressional resolution revoking a rule that prohibited mining companies from dumping toxic waste into waterways near their mines. March 3: Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke overturns ban on nontoxic metals, specifically lead, in ammunition and fishing tackle on public lands and waters March 16: The White House proposes slashing $1.5 billion from the Interior Department budget, which includes the National Park Service and the Forest Service. March 29: The administration lifts a federal moratorium on new coal leases and suspends a review of federal coal-leasing practices April 3: Trump signs into a law a rule overturning a ban on the use of certain "predator control" methods near federal wildlife refuges in Alaska. Hunters will now be able to trap wolves while in their dens with pups, kill bear cubs or mothers with cubs, and hunt grizzly bears from airplanes April 26: Trump signs an executive order calling for a review of national monuments, specifically those over 100,000 acres and created in the last 20 years. March 15: Trump proposes cutting the EPA budget by 31 percent, which includes eliminating regional programs, cutting 3,200 jobs and possibly eliminating regional offices, like the one in Chicago that has handled the Flint crisis. The agency has already begun briefing staff on buyout options. March 28: Trump signs an executive order directing EPA and the Interior Department to review the Clean Power Plan and Clean Water Rule March 29: EPA Head Scott Pruitt denies a petition to ban a pesticide that has been linked to health problems in humans. The EPA had been restricting use of the pesticide over the last decade and a full ban had strong support. April 18: The EPA announces it will review two rules dealing with coal plant emission standards and in the meantime halt ongoing Obama-era litigation enforcing those two rules. One rule deals with acceptable levels of mercury and arsenic pollution from the plants and the other rule closed loopholes plants used to strategically time emissions to bypass regulations. Feb. 7 - The Army Corps of Engineers reverses its previous stance and approves land access for Dakota Access pipeline. March 15: Trump travels to Detroit to announce plans to review and roll back carbon pollution standards for vehicles. Trump has also said that he would pull the U. S. out of the Paris climate agreement but the administration has not said if that will still happen.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/democrats-bash-trumps-100-days-gop-pretty-excited/story?id=47086940
President Trump has few Capitol Hill victories to show for his first 100 days in office, but it’s not for lack of trying. Trump’s major legislative pushes on health care, border wall funding and, now, tax reform have left Congress buzzing with activity. For Republicans, the frenetic pace is welcome. Many think Trump is shaking up the GOP and Washington for the better. “ I’d give him an ' A,'” Rep. Dave Brat, R- Va., told ABC News of Trump’s performance. “ In 100 days, he's reignited our place in the world: leadership. I think that's unquestioned. Everyone's paying attention now.” It’s been “pretty exciting,” Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R- Okla., said. “ He’s the first president since 1881 to get a Supreme Court justice in the first 100 days so we seem pretty excited. We’re moving in the right direction.” On the way to vote on the House floor today, House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy, R- Calif., declared that Trump has had a “great” 100 days in office. Rep. Mark Amodei, R- Nev., an early Trump supporter, praised the White House’s sense of urgency, calling it a “wild and woolly 100 days.” But he said he has grown frustrated with some of the intraparty bomb-throwing between Republicans in the White House and on Capitol Hill. “ I heard it that there was somebody in the White House who accused the Congress of malpractice,” he said. “ It’s always nice to get a shotgun blast in the face from your own side.” Democrats who are struggling with whiplash have accused Trump of backing down on his campaign promises. “ It's pretty much a dumpster fire,” Rep. Earl Blumenauer, D- Ore., told ABC News. ( He later tweeted a dumpster fire GIF from his official Twitter account.) " One hundred days of broken promises," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- Calif., said. " One hundred days of handouts to the richest in our countries." The New York Democrat took aim at the last, frenzied week of the Trump administration, calling it a "metaphor for how poorly the president has done." " It's chaotic, it's ineffective, it's impulsive," he said. " It's as if the president suddenly realized he's approaching his first 100 days with next to nothing to show for it." " There are occasional small things but, overwhelmingly, when you look at how he's performed ... it's an ‘ F,’" he said. " He has not accomplished much, and then he compares it to, like, Franklin D Roosevelt. It's astounding." Trump’s allies expressed confidence that Republicans will eventually be able to pass their health care bill, even if not by Trump’s 100th day in office. “ It's unfinished work obviously,” Rep. Andy Barr, R- Ky., said. “ Sometimes the legislative process takes more time. It's more deliberate than I think I would prefer. But progress is being made.” House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., downplayed the importance of the first marker in Trump’s presidency, focusing instead on the long game. “ I talked about 200 days because I thought the kind of agenda that we're attempting to put together here -- overhauling health care, overhauling the tax system, rebuilding our military, securing the border -- those take more than just a few months," he said. " They take a long time, at least a year."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/reporters-notebook-cover-donald-trump-100-days/story?id=47020088
As reporters for ABC News, our journey covering now- President Donald Trump began with on the campaign trail, where we covered his opponents during the primaries. Ever since, it has been the story of our careers, unlike anything we have previously reported on. The 2016 race featured two completely different candidates, and expectations for a Hillary Clinton win. Now, Trump's 100 days have represented a true shakeup in Washington, D. C. True to his campaign and life leading up to moving into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, President Trump has proven anything but predictable. The following ABC News Reporters' Notebook includes a few highlights from our firsthand accounts of the days that have defined and sometimes rocked the young administration. I step out of my Uber a couple of blocks from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, the closest I can get to the White House because of beefed-up security on Inauguration Day. I walk over to take my place in line with the other journalists waiting to move through the extra layer of magnetometers that the Secret Service has set up for the day. The feeling of history is palpable in the dark, early morning hours, and the sun would soon rise on President Barack Obama's final morning in the White House. By sunset, the presidential mansion would be home to a new resident: President Donald J. Trump. The wall in the press office that was decorated with newspaper clippings of pinnacle moments from the Obama administration –- the killing of Osama bin Laden and other major milestones -- is now just a blank space. The frames throughout the West Wing that once featured photographs of Obama and administration officials now hang empty on the wall. The offices and desks once occupied by the familiar faces of Obama's press aides are empty as well, soon to be filled with new, fresh-faced government employees. Getty Images President Donald Trump takes reporters questions during a news conference announcing Alexander Acosta as the new Labor Secretary nominee in the East Room at the White House on February 16, 2017. Reporters are gathered outside of Sean Spicer's office, trying to find out from the White House press secretary if the president continues to have confidence in his embattled national security adviser, Michael Flynn, amid revelations that he misled Vice President Mike Pence. But then, the president unexpectedly walks by -- apparently making his way from the Oval Office to the White House residence. Reporters fumble with their phones to record the moment, as the president pauses by a framed photo on the wall from his inauguration the previous month. " That's amazing," the president says, pointing to the crowds captured in the framed moment in time. " Where did all these people come from?" Though the president is eager to talk about crowd sizes, he declines to answer our questions about whether he continues to trust his national security adviser. The sun is just rising and the palm trees are swaying on what seems to be a calm Saturday morning in Florida. After picking up some morning caffeine for my correspondent and crew ahead of " Good Morning America," I am balancing coffees in one hand and holding a car door open with the other. @real Donald Trump " Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my "wires tapped" in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is Mc Carthyism!" I put down the coffees, partly spilling one in the process, and notify the network of the new tweet as quickly as my fingers can type on my i Phone. I then reach out to the president's press secretary and his deputy to see if the White House can provide any guidance or clarification on the bombshell accusation ahead of " GMA." That tweet is just the first in a rapid-fire succession from the president that morning. But then the president goes quiet. And so does the entire White House. None of my usual sources at the White House answer my phone calls or emails that day. The silence is deafening. I spend the rest of my day holed up in my West Palm Beach hotel room, furiously trying to get in touch with someone, anyone, in the president’s orbit who could explain what evidence the accusations were based on. That question remains unanswered to this day. AFP/ Getty Images White House spokesman Sean Spicer speaks to the press aboard Air Force One as President Donald Trump returns to Washington, DC from Philadelphia on January 26, 2017. I arrive at Andrews Air Force Base for my first trip on Air Force One with Trump. It's a cold, blustery day and we are about to embark on what feels just like a campaign swing -- Washington D. C. to Michigan to Tennessee and back -- hitting two states and seven different events. It's a strange feeling. We are only two months into the Trump presidency and reporters are en route to a number of official events followed by the president’s second campaign rally of his presidency -- but this time, we're not on the campaign plane. I am "pool" reporter on this trip, which means I'm responsible for alerting every network ( NBC, ABC, Fox, CNN and CBS) of the president's every movement and any editorial information if he makes a newsworthy announcement. That task can range from benign and routine to daunting and exhilarating. " AF1 is wheels up to Detroit at 11:18 AM. Flight time about 1 hr 20 min. In addition to the pool, Tucker Carlson from Fox is on board AF1 today along with Mark Halperin and a camera crew. Sean Spicer came back to say hello before takeoff,” I email out to all of the networks. At 1:55 p.m., we enter the venue and observe the president as he inspects 11 different American-manufactured vehicles before holding a roundtable with CEOs and union workers. Eleven days later, the president has still not responded to questions about his bombshell accusation that the Obama administration wiretapped Trump Tower. The roundtable concludes at 2:33 p.m. " Mr. President, do you plan to apologize to the former president for your wiretapping accusations?" I shout, my voice echoing through the warehouse. " AF1 is wheels down at 3:47 PM. Spicer gaggled mid-flight. Will send notes shortly," my email to the networks reads. We've arrived in Nashville, Tennessee, for a campaign rally. The motorcade weaves through large crowds of mostly supporters, but some protesters as well. Then, news breaks that a Hawaii judge has issued a nationwide temporary restraining order against the latest iteration of the president's travel ban. We need to get a reaction from the White House. I spot Sean Spicer -- but he is mobbed by the president's supporters clawing to get a photo with the newly-minted, cable television-famous White House press secretary. He comes into the "press pen," as we call it, and offers no comment on the judge's order. But leave it to Trump. Coming out swinging, the president goes off -- and the crowd eats it up. Breaking the news to his supporters, he says the judge blocked "a watered-down version of the first order ... that should have never been blocked to start with." The crowd goes wild, thousands booing and hurling insults at a federal judge. Trump then tears into Clinton, and eventually, the crowd revives the ever-familiar campaign chant of " Lock her up! Lock her up!" A dreary-eyed press corps is aboard Air Force One. Finally, a moment to exhale and for some, a brief moment of shut eye. Not so fast -- I spot a figure ahead of us with a red tie reflecting off the wall of the cabin. I feverishly scramble for my notebook, quickly scanning through the day's news in my head. In the process, I spill my tea all over myself. Notepad in hand, I start recording audio as I look up. Trump tells us he'll be doing a lot more campaign rallies, citing the "great spirit" of his crowd in Nashville. He tells us Republicans will come up with a plan on health care, but says "nothing's easy." It's a quick visit that feels like an eternity. I write up the president's remarks verbatim for the remainder of the flight before I'm able to exhale for good this time. We land at 10:34 p.m. The president is back at the White House at 11:01 p.m. Judge Neil Gorsuch's swearing-in at the White House is a high point following weeks of turmoil, including the Russia investigation and Trump's unfounded wiretapping claims. But there is nothing that can dull the moods of multiple White House aides who seem to suggest that installing a conservative justice on the Supreme Court makes the tumultuous campaign worth it. It's a beautiful, sunny day in Washington and I make my way into the White House Rose Garden. The garden is in full bloom. To my right I spot Spicer, smiling and mingling with guests. Straight ahead I see the president's chief of staff, Reince Priebus, who gives me a wave. The sitting Supreme Court justices begin to file in, sitting in the front row along with the wife of late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. As I frantically type notes on my phone, it would be easy to overlook the history being witnessed by millions on the other side of the camera. The president, though, appears right at home -- used to the spotlight, and very much aware of the gravity of the moment and what it potentially means for the future of the American justice system. The administration still points to this as the seminal achievement of Trump's first 100 days. The White House marks it as an early legislative victory, despite the upheaval of Senate rules that was needed to make it happen. " I can say this is a great honor," the president says before adding, off script: " I got it done in the first 100 days. That's even nice."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-trump-proud-1st-president-address-nra-34/story?id=47080710
Play Jim Watson/ AFP/ Getty Images WATCH President Trump 'proud' to be 1st president to address the NRA in 34 years Trump today said he is "proud" to follow in the footsteps of "our wonderful Ronald Reagan" by speaking at a National Rifle Association event. " In the history of the organization and today I am also proud to be the first sitting president to address the NRA leadership forum since our wonderful Ronald Reagan in 1983," Trump said. Today's meeting, at the NRA's Leadership Forum in Atlanta, isn't Trump's first speech to the gun rights group. He was endorsed by the NRA in May and spoke at their convention at the time. " Only one candidate in the general election came to speak to you and that candidate is now the president of the United States standing before you again," Trump said of himself during his speech. " The eight year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end. You have a true friend and champion in the White House," Trump said. The NRA is known for their sizable lobbying operation and by raising money for -- and against -- candidates. The group made over $52 million in donations to candidates during the 2016 election, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. They spent $30.3 million in support of Trump, the CRP reported. Trump campaigned on the pledge to support and protect the Second Amendment, which, he said during his May NRA appearance, was "under a threat like never before." He pointed to his then-rival Hillary Clinton as the basis for that threat. " Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment, not change it; she wants to abolish it," Trump said at the time, although Clinton had never made such claims. Trump has noted that his two eldest sons, Donald Jr. and Eric, have been longtime members of the NRA. " I can tell you, both sons, they love the outdoors. Frankly, I think they love the outdoors more than they love by a long shot Fifth Avenue, but that's OK," Trump joked. After starting the speech by reviewing the state-by-state wins on election night, Trump talked about the work that he has done on behalf of gun owners. He talked about various appointments he has made, including the nomination and eventual addition of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, as well as Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly. Hundreds of protesters and gun control advocates gathered near the convention site this morning, The Atlanta Journal- Constitution reported today. There will be another protest Saturday, and Democratic Rep. John Lewis of Georgia is scheduled to attend. Lewis and Trump have a turbulent history. Lewis did not attend the inauguration and said he did not see Trump as a "legitimate president." Trump returned the favor by criticizing the civil rights leader, saying that he was "all talk, talk, talk -- no action or results."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/national-security-agency-ends-controversial-email-collection-program/story?id=47094647
The National Security Agency will cease collecting internet communications that merely mention an individual who is considered to be a “foreign intelligence target.” The move is being welcomed by privacy advocates who have criticized the earlier practice as the collection of domestic communications by an agency intended to intercept only foreign communications. The agency will now limit its collection to specific internet communications that are sent directly to or from a foreign target. “ NSA will no longer collect certain internet communications that merely mention a foreign intelligence target,” a news release posted on the agency’s website said. The National Security Agency collects intercepted voice and data communications, known as signals intelligence, that are made overseas. “ The Agency will stop the practice to reduce the chance that it would acquire communications of U. S. persons or others who are not in direct contact with a foreign intelligence target,” the release added. The NSA said it will also delete “the vast majority” of the casual mentions of individuals who are foreign targets "to further protect the privacy of U. S. person communications." What’s known as "about" information may consist of the mention of a targeted email address found "in the text or body of the email, even though the email is between two persons who are not themselves targets." NSA will delete the vast majority of its upstream internet data to further protect the privacy of U. S. individuals’ communications “to further protect the privacy of U. S. person communications.” The change is being made after an internal review of section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that “discovered several inadvertent compliance lapses.” Crafted to fight international terrorism and cyberthreats, section 702 allows the intelligence community to conduct surveillance on specific foreign targets located outside the United States. The collection of “about” and “upstream” communications had been criticized as a means of domestic surveillance collection by the NSA, which collects foreign communications. “ This development underscores the need for Congress to significantly reform Section 702 of FISA, which will continue to allow warrantless surveillance of Americans,” said Neema Singh Guliani, American Civil Liberties Union legislative counsel. “ While the NSA’s policy change will curb some of the most egregious abuses under the statute, it is at best a partial fix,” Guliani added. “ Congress should take steps to ensure such practices are never resurrected and end policies that permit broad, warrantless surveillance under Section 702, which is up for reauthorization at the end of the year.”
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-makes-heavy-executive-orders-past-criticism/story?id=47084673
Play Andrew Harnik/ AP Photo WATCH The Difference Between an Executive Order and a Presidential Memorandum President Trump signed his 30th executive order Friday morning and the sixth this week, directing a review of off-shore drilling, an apparent sign of the White House’s last-minute sprint the 100th day mark (which Trump called "ridiculous"). But he’s not done yet. A White House official told ABC News Friday morning that two more executive orders are expected Saturday, likely upon the president’s arrival in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania for a rally that evening. The orders are expected to be directed in some form towards trade. The White House, earlier this week, lauded the president’s use of the pen, saying he “has accomplished more in his first 100 days than any other President since Franklin Roosevelt," though this claim has been disputed by historians. And a measure of this success was comparing the number of executive orders he signed to that of previous presidents: It’s a striking admission from a party historically critical of the expansion of executive power. Republicans in Congress had gone as far to create a "task force" in February of 2016 to "study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress” and look for legislative approaches to “restore the proper balance of powers.” Trump himself, has slammed the use of executive orders as an example of weak leadership and inability to work with Congress, and most of that criticism was directed at a president who had Republican majorities in Congress opposing him. On CBS's " Face the Nation" in August 2015, Trump said: “ The leadership is what you have to do. I don't like executive orders. That is not what the country was based on. You go, you can't make a deal with anybody, so you sign an executive order… So now [ Obama] goes around signing executive orders all over the place, which at some point they are going to be rescinded or they're going to be rescinded by the courts.” In further remarks in December 2015, Trump described Obama by saying, " I don't think he even tries anymore. He just signs executive actions." Even prior to launching his bid for the presidency, Trump weighed in on the subject, writing on Twitter in July 2012, " Why is @ Barack Obama constantly issuing executive orders that are major power grabs of authority?" Why is @ Barack Obama constantly issuing executive orders that are major power grabs of authority? This is the latest Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) July 10, 2012 So far, more than half of Trump's orders call for reviews of Obama-era regulations, including Dodd- Frank, federal control of education, and Obama’s use of the Antiquities Act to designate federal monuments. Three others have been met with setbacks in the judicial system, including two of the president’s travel bans and the order involving stripping federal funding from so-called sanctuary cities.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/mr-president-media-fake-news-bob-woodward-47112057
The group that represents reporters and news organizations that cover the White House pushed back against attacks on the media Saturday night at its annual dinner to raise money for journalism scholarships and celebrate the First Amendment. Now in 2017. The impatience in speed of the Internet. In our own Roth. K and disable. And undermine. The most important tool of journalism. That meant that that luxury of time. To inquire to pursue. Defined the real. Eight engines of genuine news. Witnesses. Participants. Documents. To dive into the camp. Any president and it is an administration. In Washington. It's clearly entitled to the most serious. Reporting efforts possible. We need to understand to listen 58. Obviously. Are reporting needs to get both acts and home. Right the presses specially the so called mainstream media. Comes under regular hand. Particularly. During presidential campaigns. Like this one. And it's A after man. Like politicians. And presidents. Sometimes. Perhaps too frequently. We make mistakes. And go too far. When that happens we should own up to it. But the effort today. To get this best obtainable version of the truth. Is largely. Made. In good faith. Mr. President. The media. It's not fake news.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/white-house-correspondents-dinners-biggest-zingers-47111553
Ladies and gentlemen. As time announced. Day out all night. Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the series finale of the white house correspondents' dinner. No one wanted to do that so of course Atlanta in the hands of an immigrants out always goes down. We got to address the elephant that's not in the room. The leader. Of our country is not here. And that's the view of the Moscow at the very long fly. Asked for the other guy think is in Pennsylvania could be can't take a joke now. More than nine people watching on C span there also was another elephant in the room but Donald Trump junior shot and cut up its tail. I don't like Donald Trump didn't want to be roasted tonight by the looks of them he's been roasting nonstop for the past seventy years. Historically the president usually performed of the correspondents dinner but I think I speak for all of us when I say he's gone far too much bombing this month. You'll Donald Trump doesn't drink right. Does not touch alcohol which is highly respectable. The think about that. That means. Every statement. And every interview. Every tweet. Completely sober how. Civil. Who tweeting. At three have much. It's part. Donald Trump because it's pan am and Russia does a business hours now is not just the president decided not to show up his entire administration is not here. But the Baath going to be years she's busy curator collection of children's tears. It seemed repairing and to became energy secretary. The feeling he's sitting in a roomful of plutonium way to become Spider- Man that's just my house. Jeff Sessions gonna be here tonight he was busy doing a pretty civil Laurie enactment. Now's the time to be a liar and Donald Trump is a liar. In sheet and remember. You guys. Public enemy number one you artist be used to me. Journalist. I fists. Normal like ties. We are and have very. Strange situation where there's a very combative relationship between. The press and the president. But. Now that you guys are minorities. Just for this moment. You might understand the position I was and it is the same position. A lot of minority kids feel in this country. And it's. You know do what come up here and just try to fit again. And not ruffle any feathers. Or let's say how I really feel. Because this event is about celebrating the First Amendment and free speech. Only in and Erica. Can a first generation Indian American Muslim kid hit on the stage. And make fun of the president. Orange man. Behind the Muslim band. Thank you so much it's been an honor. Good night I love you think you.
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/president-trumps-100-days-met-praise-protests-47110901
Trump attended a rally with his supporters in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to mark his 100th day in office. We begin tonight with president trump's first 100 days. A milestone met by praise and protests across the nation. The president in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania for a rally with supporters. Mr. Trump focusing on what he calls his list of accomplishments pushing back at critics who point to a shortage of legislative wins while tens of thousands of protesters once again take to the streets against this president and his policies. ABC's David Wright in Pennsylvania. Tonight the president is touting his first 100 days as an unqualified success. I believe that the first 100 days of my administration has been just about the most successful in our country's history. Reporter: Yet tens of thousands of marchers in D. C. And other cities would beg to differ. The protesters today focused on climate change. Tonight as the main stream media he likes to bash gathered in black tie for the annual white house correspondent's dinner, trump is heading here in Pennsylvania where he'll tour a lawn mower factory and hold a campaign rally. And I think having a campaign rally in Pennsylvania when a lot of people in Washington are in tuxes at a dinner is just brilliant. Reporter: Trump says the media refuses to give him credit for his long list of achievements including 28 legislative signing. In fact, he's signed 29 bills so far. 13 of them repeal Obama era rules and regulations. 9 ceremonial in nature commemorating veterans and encouraging flying the flag and innovation. 7 have legislative substance. Trump is still getting started. Day one we are going to announce our plans to totally renegotiate nafta. Reporter: Not yet though he is signing a new executive order on trade today. On day one we will begin working on a physical, tall, powerful, beautiful southern border wall. Reporter: The border wall still in limbo. So is health Cabe reform. I am going to ask a Republican congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. Reporter: And it's going to be so easy. 100 days have tempered trump's outlook. This is more work. Than I previously thought. I thought it would be easier. I understand what has to be done. I get things done and always been a closer. We don't have a lot of closers in politics and I understand why. So very rough system. It's an archaic system. Reporter: But the vast majority of trump's voters still sdif him the benefit of the doubt. Once he gets everything ironed out I think he'll be fine. Everything will get done. Rome wasn't built in a day and you can't fix the problems in 100. David Wright live from that rally in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Filling up there behind you. Now this rally was paid for by the trump 2020 campaign? Reporter: Check out this scene Tom. It's got to bring back memories for you. Same red hat and slogans. They were chanting lock her up. This arena holds 10,000 people. He'll have no problem filling it to capacity and this is the campaign beginning already.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/trump-supporters-47108994
To achieve the life and there are things that fundamental things he couldn't achieve let's face it the Democrats are determined to shoot him out of every angle. In the face of all the opposition is achieved tremendous gravity and most importantly he got Neil dorsett on the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is towers now he also show that our military might within missile strike. But he proved that we're not a biologist throughout the week we're not spineless and good luck of the draw lines in the sand when that line is crossed drawn new line. It showed that America is prepared to be strong ends up again Teddy Roosevelt they knew that was speaking softly carry that big stick. In these candidates would be a complicated vote excited about you right. I think I'm not proud in everything he's trying to do. Despite not the Democratic Party under Republican 889. I. United we end up I didn't need at. The gathering joint community we have ever going to be making America. And meet again what are you most happy about it that is it. I'll also be executive orders and he's managed to get design begin trying to get things moving through congress. And I. Disappointing that some upon this isn't working on the flag is still planning on going ahead and and I think he's done. He's trying to do everything he can do these hands are tied behind his back do you do the senate and house. I think it's my opinion is once he gets everything ironed out mid term election I think he'll be fine everything will get done. Rule one moment and you can't spend some problems in honor. He's just didn't start got to give the man a chance.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/trump-addresses-national-rifle-association-plans-rally-pennsylvania-47104355
Trump addresses National Rifle Association and plans rally in Pennsylvania to mark 100th day in office Video - ABC News Trump addresses National Rifle Association and plans rally in Pennsylvania to mark 100th day in office The president will tour a lawnmower factory and hold a campaign rally in Harrisburg on Saturday while many in Washington attend the White House correspondents' dinner. Trump addresses National Rifle Association and plans rally in Pennsylvania to mark 100th day in office You are looking at a live shot of the white house where Donald Trump is waking up on this day 100 of his presidency. If you do the math it's only 6.8% into his presidency and he's dealing with an unpleasant gift from the north Koreans in the form of a middle eaof missile launch overnight. Trump is going to spend much of this day in Pennsylvania where he will hold a rally capping his first 100 days skipping the annual white house correspondent's dinner back in D. C. The president has called the 100-day mark a ridiculous standard while boasting about all that he has accomplished. Let's look at the score card here. The president has scored wins on installing a new supreme court justice, Neil Gorsuch, and pulling out of the controversial trance pacific partnership. The tpp. However, his attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare went down in flames as did his travel ban and one of his marquee promises, building the wall, that remains in progress this morning. So much to talk about. We have team coverage with reporters from Korea to the U. S. Capitol and kick it off with David Wright who's at the white house. Reporter: 100 days is the unofficial honeymoon period. Donald Trump entered office with a splash and the seas are still choppy. My fellow Americans -- Reporter: This morning in his weekly address, the president gives himself top marks. I truly believe that the first 100 days of my administration has been just about the most successful in our country's history. Reporter: Plenty of others might dispute that, but not the national rifle association. On Friday, they gave him a warm welcome. As your president, I will never, ever infringe on the right of the people to keep and bear arms. Never, ever. Reporter: Trump has certainly changed the tone here in Washington, but he has yet to pass a single major piece of legislation. His budget and his plan to repeal and replace Obamacare -- Obamacare is a disaster. Reporter: -- Stalled at least for now. Back in the hands of a Republican congress. I'm disappointed that it doesn't go quicker. Reporter: Trump's biggest victory -- I, Neil M. Gorsuch -- Reporter: A new conservative justice to fill the 9th seat in the U. S. Supreme court. And I got it done in the first 100 days. Reporter: He signed 29 bills into law but his journey has been turbulent, too. His temporary travel ban on seven predominantly Muslim countries blocked by the courts. His promise to build that Mexican border wall in limbo. We'll build the wall, don't even think about it. Reporter: Trump was critical of president Obama's use of executive orders, calling them major power grabs of authority. But he signed more than Obama did in his first 100 days. 30 executive orders so far. I loved my previous life. I had so many things going. Reporter: Speaking to reuters, the president had this to say about his first 100 days. This is more work than in my previous life. I thought it would be easier. Reporter: Tonight as the white house press corps holds its annual black tie correspondent's dinner, the president is headed to Harrisburg to tour a lawn mower factory and hold a campaign rally, clearly hoping for that split screen moment, the press that he loves to bash living it up in fancy dress while he's out there amongst the people. Dan, Paula? It will be an interesting primetime split screen tonight. David, thank you. President Trump today said he is "proud" to follow in the footsteps of "our wonderful Ronald Reagan" by speaking at a National Rifle Association event.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/trump-100-days-struggled-seal-deal-congress-47104315
Republicans who control Congress have been busy, but internal divisions within the party have contributed to Trump's failing so far to win a single major legislative victory. The president has signed more than two dozen bills into law in his first 100 days but that includes no major legislation even though his party controls both houses of congress. Let's bring in ABC's Mary Bruce who's also in Washington and covers the capitol for us. Mary, what gives? Reporter: Dan, over these past 100 days, the negotiator in chief has been struggling to seal the deal with congress even though as you mentioned the Republicans are in control of capitol hill. The president has yet to win a single legislative victory. That doesn't mean there hasn't been plenty of activity. Republicans have been busy but their goals keeping running into a harsh political reality, the divisions within their own party. On health care for instance they've been working for weeks to gain enough support to fulfill their pledge to repeal and replace Obamacare, but they keep coming up short. The divisions so deep they're threatening the president's legislative priorities. So what comes next here? How does the president navigate this relationship with congress and get his own party to come together and move forward? Reporter: Despite the slow start, Republicans insist the best is yet to come. On health care there have been signs of progress recently, and if they can manage to get that done, their hope is it will create a path for tax reform, some of those other big-ticket items. Now, the president says he's disappointed that things aren't moving more quickly and he notes this system is tough. Even house speaker Paul Ryan admits after 8 years in the opposition party under the Obama administration, Republicans are having growing pains. Mary Bruce, thank you very much. ABC News' political analyst Matthew Dowd analyzes the highs and lows as Trump prepares to hit the 100-day mark and what Trump needs to do moving forward to accomplish his agenda.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/trump-twitter-bypass-traditional-media-communicating-public-47104275
Trump has tweeted more than 470 times since his inauguration, with the most common words in his tweets being Democrats, fake news, media, Russia and Obamacare. President trump is revolutionizing the way the commander-in-chief communicates with the American public, using Twitter to bypass the traditional media. We've crunched the data around want to share some interesting insights. His most popular tweet so far, in response to the massive protest at his inauguration trump wrote, quote, peaceful protests are a hallmark of our democracy. I recognize the right of people to express their views. It was during his third week that this was tweeted the most, mentioning his nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the supreme court. Secretary of state Rex tillerson being sworn in and attacking the judge that blocked his immigration ban. But his most popular tweet was, make America great again. So what does he tweet about the most? These words, Democrats, fake news, media, Russia and Obamacare. We have a great interactive feature on our website that lets you filter tweets by topics, time of day and even the ones he has written in all caps. Again, these originatingrom the real Donald Trump account, over 470 tweets, Dan, since the inauguration. I thought we would have seen the words sad and bad more prominently in that list. You would have been wrong. Not the first time, not the first time. Paula, thank you. Mc Donald's said Thursday night that its @ Mc Donalds Corp Twitter account was hacked, after a tweet that called Donald Trump "a disgusting excuse of a president" was posted. Barack and Michelle Obama will hand off their official president and first lady Twitter accounts once Trump assumes office. The outgoing secretary of state said Twitter announcements do not allow you to "adequately deal with the complexity of many of the choices that we make."
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/north-korea-attempts-missile-launch-47104235
South Koreans upset at Trump's comment that their country should pay the $1 billion cost of a U. S. missile defense system that is being deployed in South Korea. Overnight the president was tweeting about the story that high school transfixed much of this planet, the crises with North Korea. The north Koreans have attempted another missile launch and ABC's Bob woodruff is in Seoul, south Korea covering it all. Good morning to you. Reporter: Good morning. Yes, this missile was launched overnight and clearly this was once again Kim Jong-un flexing his muscles. Despite the growing pressure from both the U. S. And China, today another show of force. This time a short to medium-range missile believed to be a new type, a kn-17, that broke up just minutes after launch, according to U. S. Military officials, it exploded on north Korean soil. President trump treated that the failed launch disrespected the wishes of China and its highly respected president. But trump has also expressed doubt about China's influence over Kim Jong-un who has never met China's president, and there is no indication that that will change. I have a lot of respect and I really like president XI. I don't know that he's going to be able to pull it off. It may have to be a much more difficult ending, to be honest with you. Reporter: On Thursday, trump said anything could happen. There's a chance that we could end up having a major, major conflict with North Korea. Absolutely. Reporter: As for South Korea about the launch, investments reaction this morning. I asked these people what they think about the missiles and North Korea, they say a few words, but what they care about the most is who's going to be the next president in the election on may 9th. The sound in Seoul is just politics, campaigns to win the presidential election ten days from now. Now, south Koreans also told us that it's not really fear, eait's anger. They're angry about what trump said yesterday, $1 billion for the launchers that could stop the north Korean missile. In the newspapers today, here are some of the words in the headlines describing the reaction as bewildered, puzzled, shocked, betrayed and also describing president trump incomprehensible, quote unquote, but no response yet from president trump this morning. Bob woodruff reporting from Seoul this morning. Thank you. As North Korea declares it's "ready to sink" the USS Vinson, accounting professor Tony Kim is detained at Pyongyang Airport as he tried to leave the country with his wife. President Donald Trump weighed in on the tense situation with North Korea on the sidelines of the annual White House Easter egg roll today. Tony Kim remains in custody while reports suggest North Korea conducted a successful missile test and conducted an underground nuclear test in the last few days.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/north-koreas-failed-missile-launch-month-us-47104195
Joining us now from Washington is retired kornell Steve ganyard. Thanks for joining us. Good morning. This launch is significant because the U. S. Has an aircraft carrier in waters nearby but this is their third launch this month alone. What can you tell us about this particular missile? I believe they're dubbing it a carrier killer. Paula, this is interesting because this is a missile that we saw for the first time in that parade a couple weeks ago in Pyongyang. One of the things they noticed is there were guidance spins. As this parade went by they could see that it had guidance spins. Analysts think this is intended to attack U. S. Aircraft carriers. Kim Jong-un has been very careful here not to launch a long-range missile or to do a nuclear test in a way that would be provocative to the point that the trump administration would put new economic sanctions in place. So they will continue to test. They'll continue to develop these missiles, but this missile in and of itself was not especially provocative. Steve, interesting noises coming out of the trump administration. On the one hand you have the president warning of a potent potentially marriage conflict. And then you have secretary tillerson say yesterday that maybe the U. S. Will engage in talks with North Korea. Do you see that happening? That's one of the things the U. S. Has resisted for years, Bo Democrat and Republican president is have resisted that. I think what you saw yesterday from secretary tillerson is a little softening. He was clear to say we don't want regime change. We just want something that would look like a freeze. They'll continue to ramp up diplomatic pressure. The military pressure continues to get ramped up. The real cards that the administration and all of the U. N. Has to play are the economic cards, and we should see those rolled out in the days to come. China a key part of that. Steve ganyard, thank you very much for your analysis on this The detention means at least three U. S. citizens have been detained by North Korea in the past 16 months. Reports that North Korea launched a missile a day after President Trump expressed that a failure in diplomacy could mean war. Trump said a potential showdown with North Korea would be a "major, major conflict" as a Navy official suggested placing ground-based missile interceptors in Hawaii.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/analyzing-trumps-active-100-days-office-47104155
in office. We've got a pair of wringers with us this morning. ABC news political commentator cokie Roberts and Republican strategist Alex cats Yan knows. Cokie, how would you grade president trump's first 100 days? I'd give him a gentleman's C which is probably what he got in school. The fact is that he hasn't delivered on those promises and the promises were bold, the wall and repealing Obamacare. But he has succeeded in getting the supreme court justice confirmed, and he has rolled back some of what he would consider government overreach in the Obama administration through his executive orders. But it has been such a sort of chaotic 100 days. Now, a lot of voters seem to like that, but it is a little distressing when you look around and see that hundreds, I mean hundreds, of federal officials have not been named -- not confirmed, not named. So it's kind of home alone at the agencies and it's hard to get something done under those circumstances. Alex, cokie paints a bit of a rocky picture there. How would you grade these first 100 days? I think it's understandable if you're a Washington insider and you think leading is only legislating, you're going to give Donald Trump a harsh grade. But if you look at the impact he's had on the economy, America's place in the world and on Washington itself, you're going to give him an a. If you're Russia and you got bombed in Syria, you have renewed respect for America. If you're China you have a better relationship. If you're North Korea, your missiles are blowing up. If you're a defense contractor, your worry about what you charge the government now because the president of the United States renegotiate that in public. If you're a business thinking about taking your jobs to Mexico, you're thinking twice. If you're concerned about the supreme court legislating instead of just calling balls and strikes, you're happy with a new supreme court justice. So he's had quite an impact. Not legislatively. A gentleman's C from cokie and a from Alex. Cokie, what do you think has been his best moment? I agree with Alex that that moment of the president bombing Syria, whether it was a one-off or whether it means something, we don't know. But it showed a sense of action and I think that one of the real hits against Obama was that he was very cautious in that situation. Clearly people rallied around trump in that moment. But again, we don't know what that means for the long term. Alex, what do you think has been the president's not so stellar moment thus far? I think when the president realized that he didn't have enough children to run the family businesses and the entire federal government, that was a big eye opener. I think there have been moments when the president has felt slighted and perhaps his ego bruised and it became more about Donald Trump than about leading the American people. In the inaugural when there's a debate about crowd size and not about economic size, those moments I think Donald Trump suffers. Alex Castellanos and cokie Roberts we thank you very much for your analysis on day 100 of the trump presidency. My quick math shows we've got 1,360 days to go in this first term. Or 93.2% left. Exactly.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/trump-mark-100th-day-office-campaign-style-rally-47104074
It is no mistake that Donald Trump will be marking his 100th day in office with a rally in Pennsylvania tonight. That state really helped him win the white house, but how are people in that battleground state feeling about president trump now that he's been in power for 100 days? I recently went on a road trip. Reporter: Donald Trump fought hard to eek out a victory in Pennsylvania. The state was so important that he came here shortly before the election to lay out his agenda for his first 100 days. On November 8th, Americans will be voting for this 100-day plan to restore prosperity to our country. Reporter: Now that day 100 is here, we traveled to Pennsylvania to take the pulse of the voters. We talked to voters in bucks county. How are you? Nice to meet you. Reporter: A battleground county within a battleground state. This is a four-year term and we're 100 days. Nobody starts out hitting the ground doing everything. Reporter: Pat and milo voted for trump. Lauren and robin voted for Clinton. And Brian, a college student, is a never Trumper. I thought the campaign for both sides was kind of an embarrassment. I really disliked both candidates quite a lot. If you had to give a grate, what would you give? I don't give grades. I'm not a teacher. B plus. C minus. F. Reporter: The issues that concern them the most? Foreign policy is huge right now. Russia keeps me up. It needs to be investigated. Do you think president trump is doing enough to address the divisions in this country? I don't think that's his job. I think he's being fair. I think he's being -- what I hear and see, he's been very cordial to the other side. Reporter: We're going to visit Jeannine and Brian. When we last saw them, I went to their home shortly before the election. This one thinks he's funny. He says would it be funny if I put a trump sign on the front lawn and you put two or three Hillary signs. I said there's nothing funny about that. There's nothing funny about that. Reporter: I'm very curious to see what kind of impact this is having on their marriage. I'm not relieved. I'm annoyed. Are you fighting over whether he's doing a good job. He's horrible. What's to fight over? Do you agree? No, he's not horrible. And he's not a politician. Breathe, right. He's not a politician, and I think that's the problem. Reporter: As you can see, they're still fighting over trump. It's really not as bad as it was during the election. This couple really sums up America's divisions and microcosm. They tell me that their neighbors, they have a deplex, their neighbors are tired of hearing them fight through the wall. Adrienne, you were talking about how did they get together. How did they not fight about something else before this. I think they've done their fair share of fighting. They met when they were really young so maybe politically -- They have a great sense of humor about it too so that also helps. I should say that to you once in a while, just breathe. Wow, you're my counsellor, my spiritual leader, all of it, my co-anchor. All for nothing.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/republican-holdouts-agree-compromise-plan-obamacare-repeal/story?id=47176314
Play Jonathan Ernst/ Reuters WATCH President Trump rounds up Republicans to repeal and replace Obamacare Two Republican holdouts on the House GOP health care plan say they have a compromise plan that may unite the splintered caucus around a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. Reps. Billy Long, R- Mo., and Fred Upton, R- Mich., are proposing an amendment to add $8 billion over five years to help subsidize high-risk insurance pools in states that opt out of Affordable Care Act rules in a way that could allow insurers to raise rates on people with pre-existing conditions. Health insurance coverage for people with pre-existing conditions has been the main sticking point during extended negotiations among Republicans. Conservative Republicans have insisted on a proposal that would allow states to receive a waiver for Obamacare's protections for people with pre-existing conditions and instead create a separate high-risk pool. Some moderate Republicans, like Upton, insist that the plan have protections similar to those provided by the ACA. " I support the bill with this amendment. We'll consider it, likely tomorrow," Upton said. " I sat down at length with [ Rep. Greg] Walden and [ Rep. Michael] Burgess earlier this week, Monday, and we talked about how we could add protections for those with pre-existing conditions." Walden, who chairs the committee that drafted the replacement legislation, says the latest tweaks have been "embraced by all sides and endorsed by the president," who has gotten personally involved in the negotiations. Upton said he expects the House Rules Committee to act on the amendment Thursday, paving the way for a vote as soon as then. Three aides for members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus told ABC News today that the amendment would not put the caucus's support of the bill as a whole at risk. Still, an ABC News whip count shows Republicans are on the brink of losing too many votes to pass their health care overhaul bill. A previous attempt to repeal Obamacare failed in late March, when House Republicans could not come to a consensus on a replacement plan. Nineteen Republicans oppose the latest plan, and more than a dozen are undecided. Twenty-two Republican "no" votes would kill the bill. Democratic leaders have blasted the GOP plan and Upton's amendment, with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California saying that "no Band- Aid amendment will fix" the bill. Proposed @ Rep Fred Upton amendment to # AHCA is like trying to cure stage 4 cancer with cough medicine.— Chuck Schumer (@ Sen Schumer) May 3, 2017 The latest developments come after Trump spoke to 15 GOP House members Tuesday who said they are opposed to the bill or are undecided, according to a senior White House official involved in the effort. Long described his two 15-to-20-minute calls with Trump, trying to explain to the president repeatedly why he couldn't support the bill without a fix. " They need to be covered. Period," he said he told the president, referring to people with pre-existing conditions. Upton said he read back to Trump verbatim the promise he made publicly on protections for people with pre-existing conditions. " I read him back his statement," Upton said. " I want him to keep that pledge." Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said he expects a vote on health care "as early as Saturday." House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy of California said a vote on health care could come "soon," and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin said Tuesday that House GOP leaders are "making very good progress with our members, and our president has been instrumental in that." The White House still hopes the bill will pass this week, although a senior official acknowledged that it is close and that if it passes, it will be by a "razor thin" margin. House Republicans have two days left to put the bill to a vote before an 11-day recess.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/comparing-white-house-kremlins-summaries-trump-putin-phone/story?id=47178707
The White House and the Kremlin released separate summaries of the Tuesday phone call between Presidents Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin, showing some slight differences in their respective readouts of the conversation. The U. S. readout framed the conversation as a call "regarding Syria" where the two leaders reached similar conclusions. " President Trump and President Putin agreed that the suffering in Syria has gone on for far too long and that all parties must do all they can to end the violence,” the White House release stated. “ The conversation was a very good one, and included the discussion of safe, or de-escalation, zones to achieve lasting peace for humanitarian and many other reasons.” The Russian version did not speak to the suffering of the Syrian people directly, calling for "future coordination of Russian and U. S. actions to fight international terrorism in the context of the Syrian crisis." " It was agreed to bolster the dialogue between the heads of the two nations’ foreign policy agencies in an effort to find ways to stabilize the ceasefire and make it durable and manageable,” the English translation of the Kremlin statement read. “ The aim is to create preconditions for launching a real settlement process in Syria. To that end, the Russian Foreign Minister and the U. S. Secretary of State shall promptly brief the countries’ leaders on any progress achieved.” The U. S. statement said the two leaders "discussed at length" cooperation on issues relating to terrorism in the Middle East and "how best to resolve the very dangerous situation in North Korea." " The dangerous situation on the Korean Peninsula was thoroughly discussed. The President of Russia called for restraint and an easing of tensions. It was agreed to organize joint work aimed at achieving diplomatic solutions and a comprehensive settlement of the problem," the Kremlin's statement said. The two statements listed different possible upcoming interactions that the two leaders and their representatives could have. The U. S. statement said how they would be sending a representative to talks in Kazakhstan today and Thursday, while the Russian statement said Putin and Trump "agreed to continue their telephone contacts and spoke in favor of arranging a personal meeting during the G-20 Summit in Hamburg on July 7–8." A senior White House official later confirmed to ABC News that Trump and Putin discussed the possibility of a meeting, but says the two did not commit to anything. The official described it as more of a recognition that the two will be at the G-20 summit and it will present an opportunity for a possible meeting and it's still to be determined what, if anything, can be worked out.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-commits-israeli-palestinian-peace-deal/story?id=47183296
In a joint statement with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, President Trump promised a “final” peace agreement between the Israelis and the Palestinians, emphasizing his commitment to “get this done.” “ And I want to support you in being the Palestinian leader who signs his name to the final and most important peace agreement that brings safety, stability, prosperity to both peoples and to the region,” Trump said. “ I will do whatever is necessary to facilitate the agreement to mediate, to arbitrate anything they'd like to do, but I would love to be a mediator or an arbitrator or a facilitator and we will get this done.” The visit from Abbas follows Trump’s talks more than two months ago with Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Similar to his remarks alongside Netanyahu then, Trump today framed the possibility of peace between the Israelis and Palestinians with his experience in business, saying it is “perhaps the toughest deal to make,” but added “let’s see if we can prove them wrong.” “ Over the course of my lifetime, I've always heard that perhaps the toughest deal to make is the deal between the Israelis and the Palestinians,” he said. “ Let's see if we can prove them wrong, okay?” Later, during their working luncheon, Trump added: “ Let’s see if we can find the solution. It’s something that I think is, frankly, maybe not as difficult as people have thought over the years. We need two willing parties. We believe Israel is willing. We believe you’re willing. And if you are willing, we are going to make a deal.” Abbas told Trump that his goal is a two-state solution with East Jerusalem as the capital of a Palestinian state, and said the president provides a new opportunity for a peace deal. “ I believe that we are capable under your leadership and your stewardship to your courageous stewardship and your wisdom, we are, as well your great negotiating ability, I believe with the grace of God and with all of your effort, we believe that we can become -- we can be partners, true partners to you to bring about a historic peace treaty under your stewardship to bring about peace,” Abbas said. “ Now, Mr. President, with you, we have hope.” “ Mr. President, it's about time for Israel to end its occupation of our land. After 50 years. We are the only remaining people in the world that still live under occupation,” Abbas said. “ We are aspiring and want to achieve our freedom, our dignity, and our right to self-determination, and we also want for Israel to recognize the Palestinian state just as the Palestinian people recognize the state of Israel.”
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/house-vote-trillion-government-funding-bill/story?id=47179020
The House of Representatives passed a $1 trillion spending bill Wednesday afternoon, crossing off a major item on lawmakers' to-do list before they begin an 11-day recess. The bill -- which passed by a 309-118 margin, with four members abstaining -- is written to fund the government through September and includes a $15 billion increase in funding for the military. The spending bill also contains $1.5 billion for border security, but leaves out funding for the physical border wall that President Donald Trump wants to be built on the U. S.- Mexico border. It also doesn't block funding for Planned Parenthood or sanctuary cities. Trump touted the bill Tuesday as a "clear win" for the American people, hours after he suggested that Washington needs a "good 'shutdown'" in September. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said Trump's tweets were in reaction to Democrats claiming victory in the negotiations over the spending bill. " I think the president is frustrated with the fact that he negotiated in good faith with the Democrats and they want out to try and spike the football and make him look bad," Mulvaney said during a press briefing at the White House Tuesday. Now that the bill has passed the House, it will head over to the Senate before finally landing on the president's desk for his signature.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/rubber-stamp-party-pelosi-democrats-abortion/story?id=47174721
In an interview with The Washington Post on Tuesday, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- Calif., said that Democratic candidates should not be forced to hew to the Democratic Party's official line on abortion. " I grew up Nancy D’ Alesandro, in Baltimore, Maryland; in Little Italy; in a very devout Catholic family; fiercely patriotic; proud of our town and heritage, and staunchly Democratic," she told the Post. “ Most of those people -- my family, extended family -- are not pro-choice. You think I’m kicking them out of the Democratic Party?" Pelosi's remarks came several weeks after Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez and Sen. Bernie Sanders, I- Vt., went on a multi-stop speaking tour for Democratic audiences around the country. They caught flack from pro-choice groups after appearing in Omaha, Nebraska, to support the mayoral candidacy of Heath Mello, a pro-life Democrat. But Pelosi has sounded a slightly more big-tent approach, not shying away from her pro-choice beliefs but emphasizing that her party should not make the issue of abortion a litmus test for Democratic politicians. " In our caucus, one thing unifies us: our values about working families," Pelosi told the Post. " Some people are more or less enthusiastic about this issue or that issue or that issue. They’ll go along with the program, but their enthusiasm is about America's working families." Editor’s note: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported the state of the mayoral race involving Heath Mello. It also incorrectly noted Bernie Sanders’ party affiliation.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/fbi-director-james-comey-testify-front-congress-today/story?id=47178809
FBI Director James Comey was grilled today by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee about his controversial decision to reveal an investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails during a critical stretch of the 2016 presidential election. Comey took questions today about the Oct. 28 letter he sent ahead of the election notifying lawmakers that the FBI was going to investigate the emails. The letter led to criticism from Democrats who felt his actions cost Clinton the election and from former Justice Department officials for his breaking with the department's long-standing practice of avoiding commenting on investigative actions close to an election that could influence the outcome. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D- Calif., asked Comey about his decision to send a letter to Congress on Oct. 28. Before sending the letter, Comey said the investigation into Clinton's use of a private email server while she was secretary of state had been completed. " I've lived my entire career by the tradition that if you can possibly avoid it, you avoid any action in a run-up to an election that might have an impact, whether it's a dog catcher election or president of the United States, but I sat there that morning, and I could not see a door labeled 'no action here'," Comey said today during the hearing. " I could see two doors. One was labeled 'speak,' the other was labeled 'conceal.'" The emails Comey was referring to in his Oct. 28 notification he sent to Congress were found on former New York Rep. Anthony Weiner's laptop - former Clinton State Department aide Huma Abedin's estranged husband. Comey revealed today that Abedin appeared to have a "regular practice" of forwarding classified emails to Weiner. According to Comey, Abedin would send them to Weiner so he could print them out as "a matter of convenience" and then she could deliver them to Clinton. Comey said the FBI completed the investigation into Abedin and couldn't prove there was any criminal intent. " We didn't have any indication she had a sense what she was doing was in violation of the law," Comey said. FBI Director James Comey said today it makes him "mildly nauseous" to think the bureau might have influenced the 2016 presidential election. " It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact on the election, but honestly, it wouldn't change the decision," a very animated Comey said in his testimony. " I think I treated both investigations consistently under the same principles," Comey said of the probe into Clinton's private email server and the investigation into any possible contact between Trump campaign associates and the Russian government. Comey said the FBI confirmed the investigation into Clinton's email server in October 2015, and then "said not another word, not a peep about it until we were finished." " I don't know what we'll say when we're done, but that's how we handled the Clinton investigation, as well," Comey said. Comey was asked if the FBI would be providing any updates to the American people about the ongoing investigation into Trump campaign associates and any potential collusion with the Russian government. " Certainly not before the matter is concluded," Comey said. " And then depending upon how the matter is concluded, some matters are concluded with criminal charges and then there's a public accounting and a charging document. Other matters as was the case with the e-mail investigation end with no charges but some statement. Others end with no statement. I don't know yet. Obviously I would want to do that in close coordination with the department. The head of the FBI director said he's been interviewed by the Department of Justice inspector general as part of the DOJ's independent investigation into the FBI's handling of the Clinton email probe. " I want that inspection because I want my story told because some of it is classified but also if I did something wrong, I want to hear that," Comey said. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D- Conn., asked Comey if he had any regrets in announcing last July that the FBI had closed the Clinton investigation and then in his Oct. 28 letter said the FBI was taking additional steps. " The only thing I regret is answering the phone when they recruited me to be FBI director and I was living happily in Connecticut," Comey said, getting some laughter from the room. " I've gotten all kinds of rocks thrown at me," Comey said. " This has been really hard but I think I've done the right thing at each turn." " Somehow I would have prayed away, wished I was on the shores of the Connecticut sound but other than that, I don't have any regrets," Comey admitted.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/gop-plan-pre-existing-conditions/story?id=47167931
Play The Associated Press WATCH GOP health care bill loses support over coverage for pre-existing conditions Health care coverage for pre-existing conditions has been a major sticking point in the negotiations around the new GOP health care plan -- and a source of mixed messages from Republicans and Democrats about what the bill would actually do. President Donald Trump said in an interview on Monday that the bill would cover pre-existing conditions as well as Obamacare did. " I want it to be good for sick people. It's not in its final form right now," he told Bloomberg News on Monday. " It will be every bit as good on pre-existing conditions as Obamacare." But Democrats have attacked the plan as getting rid of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, like congestive heart failure, epilepsy, kidney disease, multiple sclerosis, paralysis, severe mental illness, Alzheimer's, dementia and pregnancy. So who's right? Here what you need to know about pre-existing conditions and the GOP health care plan: The amendment to the current GOP health care plan would effectively undermine Obamacare's protections for people with pre-existing conditions, allowing states to apply for a waiver from national pre-existing conditions rules. But it would not leave them uninsured: states would be required to create a high-risk pool to cover those individuals. " Even if a state gets a waiver, there are multiple layers of preexisting condition protections, like continuous coverage," said Speaker Paul Ryan, explaining the plan on Thursday. A fact sheet released by Ryan's office says states can only get out of the pre-existing conditions coverage requirement "if that state has chosen to take care of the people through other risk-sharing or reinsurance mechanisms." " The amendment is very clear: Under no circumstance can people be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition," reads the fact sheet. But the waiver would lift the prohibition on insurers charging sick consumers more for health insurance if their coverage has lapsed. Conservative members of the GOP caucus who did not support the previous version of the Republican health care plan say this amendment will ultimately keep premiums lower. But moderate Republicans are wary of what the bill might mean for people with pre-existing conditions back home. Republicans are struggling to find the necessary support to pass the bill, and whip counts show the fate of the bill in the House is unclear. More than 52 million Americans -- roughly 27 percent of adults under 65 years old -- have a pre-existing condition that would make them un-insurable before Obamacare, according to a December 2016 study from the Kaiser Family Foundation. Many of these people have coverage through an employer or other government coverage, but this group of people would be affected if they were ever to lose their insurance. Kaiser notes that states in the deep South have even higher rates of pre-existing conditions, where one in three or more Americans have pre-existing conditions in Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi and West Virginia. It includes 30.4 million people in states that Trump won and another 21.2 million people in states that Hillary Clinton won in the 2016 presidential election -- that's 28.0 percent of people in Trump states and 24.6 percent of people in Clinton states, according to an ABC News analysis of Kaiser data. That's also 25.4 million people in states with a unified Republican state government, which would be most likely to apply for waivers and create separate high-risk pools. Another Kaiser Family Foundation poll showed that a majority of Americans -- 53 percent -- say they or someone in their household has a pre-existing condition.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/andrew-jacksons-celebrity-paved-donald-trump/story?id=47167579
President Donald Trump clearly sees himself in former President Andrew Jackson. From Jackson’s populist appeal to his “nasty” campaign style, Trump has consistently argued it’s an apt comparison -- and Steve Inskeep says, “ There’s something to it.” Inskeep is the host NPR’s " Morning Edition" and the author of “ Jacksonland,” a history of Jackson’s presidency. He said that in addition to some obvious parallels between the two presidents, they have one overlooked similarity -- they both used their celebrity to reach the White House. “ His reality show was the War of 1812 basically,” Inskeep told ABC News' Jonathan Karl and Rick Klein on the " Powerhouse Politics" podcast. “ He was incredibly famous and he exploited, extended, took advantage of his fame.” Inskeep said Jackson emerged from the War of 1812 with such a surprising victory that he was seen “as a man who had God on his side.” He later allowed his aides to write a biography of him shortly after the war. It essentially became the first presidential campaign biography, promoting Jackson for the presidency. In a Sirius XM interview Monday, Trump said that his “campaign and win was most like Andrew Jackson,” and Inskeep said that in many ways, that’s true. ( In that same interview, Trump also suggested that Jackson, who was president from 1829 to 1837 and died in 1845, could have prevented the Civil War, which broke out in 1861.) “ Jackson was or cast himself as an outsider even though he was actually a very rich guy and a member of a certain elite, which can sound kind of familiar,” Inskeep said. “ And he cast himself as the man who was in favor of the common people. ... So the language is a little different but the sentiment is really similar.” When Jackson was elected, elites “were horrified” and thought he may become a dictator, given his penchant for crude and outlandish statements. Once, Jackson threatened to cut off the ears of his political enemies. In the same interview, Trump also claimed that Jackson “had a big heart.” While that may have been true with his friends and allies, Inskeep said Jackson was also “a guy who would stop at nothing if his pocketbook was involved, if his interests were involved, or if his political coalition was in any way threatened.” In many ways, Jackson has left an unsavory mark on history: He was the architect of the Native American Trail of Tears and was an adamant slave owner. In recent years, Jackson’s cruelty has been a center of public debate, which prompted the Obama administration to promise to replace Jackson’s face with Harriet Tubman’s on the $20 bill. But many Americans grew up being taught to revere Jackson and “had been all along kind of quietly resentful that he was under such continuous attack,” Inskeep said. For Trump, a candidate who revived the “silent majority” axiom during his 2016 campaign, choosing to align himself with the memory of Jackson is more than an apt observation -- it's politically clever, says Inskeep. “ Nobody publicly defended this guy,” Inskeep said. “ So if you were going to be Donald Trump taking the political approach that he’s taken to every issue and you’re thinking about what historical character to identify with, Jackson is almost the perfect guy.”
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/77-million-served-water-contaminated-systems-report/story?id=47161151
Jake May/ The Flint Journal- MLive.com via AP Photo Flint residents Lisa Millard, left, Teresa Farley, and Holland resident Lisa Leggio all chant in unison with nearly 100 others protesters, demanding answers and solutions to the city's water crisis woes on the three-anniversary of the initial water switch, on April 25, 2017, outside of City Hall in Flint, Mich. In 2015, more than 76 million Americans were served by community water systems that had some reported drinking water violations, including more than 18 million people receiving water with too much lead and copper, according to new report released today by the environmental advocacy group Natural Resources Defense Council. The report highlights different groups of contaminants reported in public drinking water and the increased risks for the strained and aging systems of smaller communities, just as proposed cuts to drinking water programs loom at the Environmental Protection Agency. " There’s a two-tiered drinking water system in this nation and rural America is most at risk from the inequality," said Mae Wu, Senior Attorney with NRDC’s Health program. " Small systems have the highest percentage of water violations, and it’s largely due to financial and technical capacity issues that will only get worse when the EPA cuts drinking water programs." The NRDC's analysis of public reports found contaminants, including lead, copper, arsenic and dangerous bacteria, pose a widespread threat to U. S. public drinking water supplies and, potentially, public health. The analysis included data from 2015 EPA reports, specifically public lists of violations and water issues from cities across the country. According to their study, almost two million Americans in 2015 lived in communities with water systems that had broken rules about arsenic levels, for example. Smaller communities and water systems reaching fewer than 500 people "accounted for nearly 70 percent of all violations and a little over half of all health-based violations," the report says. Marc Edwards, a civil engineer and professor at Virginia Tech, researches drinking water and infrastructure issues in the U. S. He said the eye-popping numbers of contaminated water systems listed in the NRDC’s report did not surprise him. " It verifies concerns that we have been expressing for the last 10 years, which is that these rural American cities are just not able to fund their water infrastructure needs and they cannot afford to upgrade their systems, nor can they afford to meet existing federal law," he told ABC News. He said his research team, which played a major role working on the Flint, Michigan water crisis, was inundated with calls from people in rural America looking for help. " They are really on their own. You can’t really trust that the existing law is being enforced," he added. " People are being told their water is safe when it is not. It is like being in a third-world country, while living in a first-world country." The NRDC report calls for the federal government to triple funding for water infrastructure improvements, which it says would not only help protect the safety of drinking water, but also create jobs. In addition, the organization is advocating for better methods to detect water issues and tougher enforcement of water safety violations. The Safe Water Drinking Act passed in 1974 gives the EPA the authority to establish minimum health standards and protect tap water. Environmental and health advocacy groups have long argued that not only does the EPA fall short of enforcing existing regulations, they say the agency needs to write additional regulations for new toxic chemicals, metals and bacteria. According to EPA data, the NRDC report says, the agency and states took formal enforcement action against just 13.1 percent of safe drinking water violations in 2015. Health-based violations brought a higher rate of formal enforcement actions -- 21.2 percent. " Under new leadership, EPA has made clear it is getting back to its core mission, which includes protecting America’s drinking water," an EPA spokesperson said in a statement to ABC News. " Unfortunately, this is an area in which the past administration failed, as we saw the devastating consequences of Flint, Michigan and East Chicago, Indiana. Administrator Pruitt is committed to helping modernize our country’s outdated water infrastructure in order to ensure we maintain safe drinking water for the more than 300 million people that depend on it daily.” The White House and Congressional Republicans are currently advocating for legislation that would limit the EPA's ability to write new drinking water standards. The budget proposed by the White House for next year could further limit the EPA’s ability to enforce safe water rules, as it recommends a significant -- nearly 30 percent -- cut to the agency’s programs.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/republicans-scrounge-health-care-votes-key-member-announces/story?id=47164041
Play Charles Dharapak/ AP Photo WATCH GOP health care bill loses support over coverage for pre-existing conditions A top House Republican announced opposition to the GOP health care bill Tuesday, citing concerns about pre-existing conditions, as Republican leaders continued to tout the proposal and hunt for votes. Rep. Fred Upton, R- Michigan, the former chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee with jurisdiction over health care, told a Michigan radio station this morning that he won't be voting for the bill. " I’ve supported the practice of not allowing pre-existing illnesses to be discriminated against from the very get go," Upton said. " This amendment torpedoes that." The new amendment to the GOP health care bill would keep pre-existing conditions protections in place, but would allow states to seek waivers for an Obamacare mandate that prevents insurers from charging consumers with pre-existing conditions more for health insurance. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wisconsin, defended the measure Tuesday morning and insisted Republicans are gaining ground in their effort to grow support for the bill. " What's important is we want to have a situation where people can afford their health insurance. We want to have a situation where people have a choice of health insurers. That's not happening in Obamacare," Ryan said, pointing to high premium increases. " So what good is insurance if you don't get it, if it's not offered to you or you can't afford it? So the purpose of our bill is to get more choices to lower prices while preserving the protections for pre-existing conditions. So that is a very important thing." " We're excited about this policy," he continued. " We're making very good progress with our members and our president has been instrumental to that." According to ABC News' whip count, at least 21 Republicans are opposed to the amended health care bill, putting the GOP on the verge of losing a potential vote. Even more Republicans remain undecided on the measure, including Rep. Ed Royce, R- California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, R- New Jersey, the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. Another leadership ally, Rep. Billy Long, R- Missouri, who was also a vocal Trump supporter during the campaign, came out against the measure -- even after spending 30 minutes on the phone with President Trump on Monday. A House GOP aide said a vote this week, before the House leaves Washington for a week-long recess, is a possibility, though no changes had been made to the schedule as of Tuesday afternoon. The aide said Republican leaders are considering adding more funding to the high-risk pools for consumers with pre-existing conditions, in an effort to court more GOP moderates. This morning, top Republicans were mum on a potential vote this week. Leaders didn't bring it up in the GOP conference meeting, according to members. House Majority Whip Scalise told reporters the whip count is "better" today. Vice President Mike Pence was back on Capitol Hill Tuesday, huddling with undecided moderates in his House-side office before the Senate GOP lunch. " We’re still trying to work through some issues," Rep. Dave Reichert, R- Washington, told reporters as he left Pence's meeting.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/spicer-trump-stands-description-obama-evil/story?id=47139124
After President Donald Trump was pressed Monday morning as to whether he stood by derisive descriptions of President Barack Obama, White House press secretary Sean Spicer affirmatively answered the question for him during the day's press briefing. In an exchange with CBS's John Dickerson, Trump was asked about his classification of Obama as "sick and bad" in a series of March tweets in which he accused his predecessor of ordering a wiretap of Trump Tower. The president told Dickerson, " You can figure it out yourself," " I don't stand by anything," and "you can take it any way you want" at various points in the interview. Asked for clarification by ABC News' Cecilia Vega on the claim that Trump doesn't "stand by anything" and "if he still believes President Obama is an evil guy," Spicer answered unequivocally. " He clearly stands by that," said Spicer. " That's something he made clear if you look at the entire back and forth." Trump abruptly ended his interview with CBS earlier in the day after expressing that he has "own opinions" as he and Dickerson discussed the wiretapping accusations. Trump never provided evidence for the allegations and the idea that Obama ordered the action has been debunked by intelligence officials and members of both major political parties.
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/president-trump-rounds-republicans-repeal-replace-obamacare-47192615
In the 11th hour the president makes his case but will likely face more hurdles even if he gets backing. We turn next tonight to breaking developments in president trump's newest attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare. A couple of key Republicans two were going to vote no at the white house today. What does this now mean for Americans with pre-existing conditions? ABC's Mary Bruce. Reporter: With the president's health care plan teetering on the edge, today two Republican congressmen went to the white house to make a deal. They had already told him they were voting " No." One warning the plan would " Torpedo" protections for people with pre-exisisting conditions. The president said, Billy, we really need you, we need you. And I said you don't have me. Reporter: But today the lawmakers offered a compromise they all could agree to. With this addition that we brought to the president and sold him on in an over the hour meeting with him that we are both yeses on the bill. Reporter: Before taking office, president trump promised to keep Obamacare's protection for pre-existing conditions in place. Are you going to make sure that people with pre-conditions are still covered? Yes, because it happens to be one of the strongest assets. Reporter: But the bill house Republicans have been pushing puts that promise in jeopardy, by allowing states to seek waivers so insurance companies could charge people with pre-existing conditions more. The pushback to the overhaul, fierce. And from Hollywood, an emotional voice, Jimmy Kimmel sharing the story of his newborn son's heart condition. If your baby is going to die and it doesn't have to, it shouldn't matter how much money you make. Reporter: With today's deal, Republicans hope to put out the fire. A new amendment would give states $8 billion over 5 years to help cover those with pre-existing conditions. Is this funding enough to protect people with pre-existing conditions? I asked the question whether the funds would be sufficient and the answer was yes. Reporter: But today, hundreds of leading patient and health groups said " No," calling the new funding just a drop in the bucket. The American cancer society calling the changes " Particularly egregious." And the American medical association warning that people with pre-existing conditions will get " Second-class health care coverage, if they are able to obtain coverage at all." The white house admits the real impact for people with pre-existing conditions is hard to gauge. There are so many variables that are unknown that to make an analysis of that level of precision is almost impossible. Reporter: But tonight, Republicans are hopeful. The bill will pass the house. Mr. Vice president on health care, do you have the votes? Will you finally get this done? Stay tuned he says. Bottom line here from your count tonight, do Republicans have the votes to pass this effort and if so do they face a tougher fight in senate. Republican leaders are meeting here tonight to see if they have enough support to get this done. The Republicans are on the cusp of victory. If this gets to the senate it will be scrutinized all over again. The fight is likely to be brutal. Mary Bruce on the battle ahead. Mary, thank you. Since the failure of the GOP health care bill in the House nearly three weeks ago, President Donald Trump has suggested letting Obamacare explode to bring Democrats to the negotiating table.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/tillerson-american-values-separate-foreign-policy-47192365
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's remarks set off a fresh wave of backlash from administration critics still questioning President Trump's offers to meet with controversial foreign leaders. The let's talk first about. My view you translate America first and our foreign policy and I think. I approach it rodents America first national security. And economic props bears. And that doesn't mean it comes at the expense of others. Our partnerships and our alliances. Are critical to our success in both of those years as we. Participated in those changes we were promoting relations were promoting economic activity. Were promoting. Trade with a lot of these emerging. Economies. And we just kinda lost track of how we were doing. As a result things got a little bit out of balance. And I think that's did you hear the president talk about it that's what he really speaks about his. But things have gotten out of balance. And these are really important relationships just the really important alliances over got to bring him back and about. Guiding all of our. Foreign policy actions or our fundamental values. Our values around freedom. Human dignity. Of white people were treated Bulger our values. Over not our policies. They're backed. And the reason it's important I think to keep that well understood is policies can't change. They do change they should change. Policies change to adapt to the short of our values never change I think it really important all of us understand the difference between policy and back. And in some circumstances we sure and do condition. Our policy engagement so people adopting certain actions as to how they treat people what should we should demand that. We must secure. The nation we must protect our people we must protect our borders. We must protect our ability to be that voice of our values now and forever more. And we can only do that with economic prosperity. Sorts foreign policy projected. With a stronger ability to enforce. The protection of our freedom from the strong military. And all of you that have been at this a long time understand the value. Of speaking with a posture straight not a threatening posture. But a posture straight people note back and a.
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-clinton-emails-capitol-47192324
Comey says he feels "mildly nauseous" to think his actions affected the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. And we begin tonight with the FBI director James Comey. His most forceful answers yet amid that grilling on capitol hill today. Comey animated in his answers, facing questions about whether his decision just 11 days before the election affected the outcome. Comey using those words saying it makes me quote, mildly nauseous that he might have swayed the election. ABC's senior justice correspondent Pierre Thomas leading us off. Reporter: Under the microscope since that election result came in, were you comfortable with the role you played in the investigation? Tonight FBI director James Comey back in the hot seat. Tell me what you would do. Reporter: At issue, that bombshell 11 days before the election. Hillary learning when the plane landed, director Comey had reopened the e-mail investigation. The revelation dominating the front pages in the final week and a half. Just yesterday, Clinton in part blaming Comey for her November loss. I was on the way to winning if the election had been on October 27th I'd be your president. Reporter: Today an emotional Comey in perhaps his most emotional and dramatic testimony explained why he went to congress about Clinton's e-mails discovered on her aide huma abedin's spouse's computer. E-mails that would not change the case. Concealing in my view would be catastrophic, not just to the FBI and well beyond and honestly as between really bad and catastrophic, I said to my team we've got to walk into the world of really bad. Look, this is terrible. It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact on the election. I would make the same decision. I find that hard to believe -- Reporter: Democrats pounced, asking why reveal Hillary Clinton's investigation, pointing out that Comey had concealed the fact that he was investigating trump's associates for alleged ties to Russia throughout the summer and fall. Only telling congress after the election. I join those who believe that the actions taken by the FBI did, in fact, have an impact on the election. Was it appropriate for you to comment on one investigation repeatedly and not say anything about the other? I think I treated both investigations consistently under the same principles. Reporter: Comey also was pressed about where the FBI's investigation into trump campaign associates stands tonight. Do you stand by your testimony that there is an active investigation, counterintelligence investigation regarding trump campaign individuals and the Russian government as to whether or not they collaborate? You said that in March -- To see if there was any coordination between the Russian effort. That's still going on? Yes. Has the white house cooperated? With the investigation? Correct. It's not something I'm going to comment on. Let's get to Pierre Thomas. You heard director Comey pressed about the investigation and the Donald Trump campaign any possible collusion with Russia. He's not saying anything more. David, senators got nowhere. Comey said you won't hear a peep from him until the investigation is over. David? Pierre Thomas in that room today, Pierre, thank you.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/white-house-defends-amendment-gop-health-care-bill-47190048
The amendment would allocate $8 billion in additional funds to help states run high-risk pools for people with pre-existing conditions. So right now pre existing conditions are covered in the bill they've always happen with talks about that before states have the right to receive a waiver. Is so one. Has continuous coverage that's never going to be an issue regardless of no circumstance. Is saying with continuous coverage would ever have a problem with creeks is to do it. If someone chose not to have coverage for 63 days or more. And they were any state that opted out. And they had a preexisting condition. And they were put into a high risk pool that we've allocated an additional eight billion dollars over five years to help track down those costs so for someone to know. How many people that is what number of states are gonna are are gonna receive a waiver asked for and receive a waiver. Is is literally impossible at this point so to do an analysis. And any level. Factual basis would be literally. 89 not impossible. If you have a preexisting can cheat get condition currently. The bill protection. The only factor would be is if you live in a state that potentially has a asked for a waiver and then is subsequently granted it. And if Hugo on 63 days without continuous coverage so if you have continuous coverage if you live in a state it'll never ever be a factor. But the president has work to make sure they need every single scenario anybody everybody he's kept true to his word pre existing conditions are covered. And in that the cost curve continues to bend down.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/trump-mideast-peace-47188322
I'm committed to working within Israel and the Palestinians. To reach an agreement but any agreement cannot be imposed by the United States or by any other nation. The Palestinians and Israelis must work together to reach an agreement that allows both peoples to live. Worship and thrive and prosper in peace. And I will do whatever is necessary to facilitate the agreement to mediate. Arbitrate any thing they'd like to do. But I would love to be immediate and learn opera traitor or facilitator. And we will get this done. Over the course of my lifetime I've always heard. That perhaps the toughest deal to make is the deal between. The Israelis. And the Palestinians. Let's you've we can prove them wrong OK. Good.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/blame-hillary-clintons-presidential-election-loss-47183336
A friend just met a ramp plus a lesson public appearances but what Christiane I'm four and a woman for woman international event. And opened up well watch season as she's not the president right now taken up. I was on the way to winning. Until a combination of Jim colonies letter on October 28 and Russian Wiki leaks. Raise doubts in the minds of people. Who were inclined to vote for me but got scared off. Election on October 27 I'd be your president did we make mistakes of course we did. Did I make mistakes oh my gosh yes I did win more than three million votes then I. I'm now back to being an activist citizens and part of the resistance. So does that public. OK a. After some reasons as to why she overlooked and stuffs are. That's what's the most unimpressed I've been with Hillary Clinton everytime I see her do an interview I'm waiting for a moment where she just doesn't blame any wanton. But herself acknowledges why they lost why. The reason why she lost without her foreign policy at the State Department was a disaster her intervention in Libya outlet to terrorist havens and infiltration of ices. She lost because she picked a bad vice presidential candidate she didn't do proper ground work in states like Wisconsin. In states like Michigan states like Pennsylvania. She lied to people she needed to know we're not a lot pleased about a lot about how this line about people look at what he did not let's let's not. What lies in god what Monica. But you know I'm yeah about it now. That's. Why not just can't have. Director of the houses get no no I was I was in late finishing he had a bet I write I tend to agree I was a little shocked when I saw her say that at first. Because I think there was a moment after the election when so many of us stopped after looking at those pulls in the build up and we we're like what did we miss. In some way they can she might still be missing some of that I think if she had said these both were a part of the problem. But that in this. You know I think right he said it out and I'm actually Ed to she said dean take any responsibility for that and I found that the fact that out of the gates her answer was the Russian thing you call me because. I think there were there were messaging problems she wasn't on the ground a lot of the people that spoke up want. Three million more votes than Donald Trump did so Barmes has not out there. I was investigating trumps Russia ties and it. I've since July and they only mention that this market they mentioned it. It Knox told her it for her. I was I'm Hillary Clinton supporter Koppel what I'm saying if I was disappointed by the inner view. Because to me at this moment what we eat she needed to say was he missed the market a lot of ways there were things we didn't hear. And it some CNN NBC might still not eat she might still be missing. I don't know that she missed the mark Rey I don't know you just an also wants the election because the election isn't Ron by the popular vote it's run by the electoral college and she's a seasoned politician. And she should know that those states. That she skipped out on bill states that somebody go tell that I'm pretty we she's. Because that's what cost of the election added anyway people in this country study elect. It was. FBI director called me what cost her the election in my opinion. Is is is a brushes hacking and what cost her the election is if you look at the stats. People this was I agree with white van Jones and a sense this was a white last there's there been studies 20%. Of people voted because of racism. And I've made after. Here's have a black president there was no way that this woman who want to win. Why the Clinton elected a black president twice because he was a good candidate she was not a good candidate outside is not great yeah. About her my opinion she would have made a great president. She was not a great candidate had waited yeah but she would have been a great president he wasn't interesting. Let's face it Putin wanted to make America great again let's tell. I've been a model about that seemed the most qualified candidate for president that we ever. I think that's not what you. We'll call and they weren't voting on qualifications and that frankly I'm enforcer of the new guy would probably take to Twitter. About all of them conversation if they or have that wasn't quite as he did sweeting that call me was the best thing for her. 'cause he gave her a free pass for her bad deeds I'll bet landing Russia's store it was an excuse Democrats are using and then he just ran a great campaign. You know can I just say that today I just read CNN has putting up that call me is now saying I'd just seen this. And that if he hadn't put that information out about Hillary he felt it would have been catastrophic. On the other hand he didn't feel would be catastrophic if you put out the fact that the Russian connection was under investigation and prosecution which he did not now you can't tell me that that was not a crew. Well IINY. I really OK I think what could be put my car is that there were a lot of even if she lost that have nothing to do with anyone else except for Hillary Clinton is sent back asked. No she did an essay yeah we not only head screwed on Asian that it currently in her. First answer she gave two reasons that the reason I'm not president is because the comb and brush I had an interest Sheehan on the port said. DT getting responsible I'm not think she did take responsibility I think this is multi facet I don't think anyone can speak. Retro actively about what would happen but I think there were late years today but you say so you're saying that of Christiane had asked that question she wouldn't have been noticing the app coming at a gate saying all of me and it was east things she said this end if anything election was not well seventh I would be your I did right right I think she's right.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/bill-maher-democrats-made-white-people-feel-minority-47183295
Now my has his own thoughts on why Democrats came up short and how Republicans tapped into what Botha's really wanted to hear. Well. Ease up on the identity politics. They pulled off quite an eight tricked into running sixth in May they made white people who are still. That the majority in this country. Feel like a minority or at least enough of them to swing the election. So I think I think that's important to make make sure you. You look like you represent everybody including the majority. He blames identity politics. So the fact that the god who got elected. Then he started out with identity politics he'd started his campaign off with identity politics. May be people felt like they were getting rained on maybe I'm craze it. But. I guess these same Democrats spent too much time on movements like black lives Madeleine transgender rights and not enough time talking to the white majority. Well I guess white people must have doubts. Like oh now I know what they've been doing to black people is ears. You know what they've. Cut things will be a lot of it and they didn't acknowledge that now but that's how. That's what we're going not after you paint on it now it's like Gloria Steinem once it Isaak when Tom why I'm so afraid of message that is they're afraid we get into power we're gonna do to them but they did jobs. I don't think this clip it's them. I know that but that's starting conversations he's once before we where he had a really powerful clip where he. Started to talk about while Democrats and liberals were busy policing Lang wage. And what pronoun to use Republicans were taking over grasp it grassroots level government. And I thought there was a plea to be had here which as I think right now in this teenage when he when you think of identity politics you're talking about gender you're talking about. Sexual identity you're talking about race I'm not all of east hats and I think that being used when you. Answer or dissent against one of these look like a conversation about when and leisure immediately dismissed as. Privileged or in its took whatever it when you do watt when you dissent when you are you when you bring up a point that might be counter to the point being brought up. In the discussion yeah you're instantly dismissed as privileged and or in its whenever isn't. Sex circus race and the old you know maybe you get that label making the problem there. Is there are people that would be allies to these causes if there was inclusion what we do is when there's dissent you dismiss people so they can't be in the conversation. I think the second thing is it goes against his counterproductive to those movements which have forever been about. And indeed EGB individualism within those groups and I think they work against their own cause went all they do we are put my brother says to me on a gay man but it much more than that every time. I call and say that come back. That they were busy worrying about whether we call them the Redskins or not. The Republicans weren't doing grassroots politicking in all of these states I think that those two things a separate. Fact that. That we would doing that saying the Redskins as racist. As has nothing to do with the fact that they were not doing that grassroots business yet so that you can continue today you know a sensitivity to minorities hack into gas do your grass hopes business the Coke Brothers moved to right in there and took over a lot but a lot of money into it. And that Republicans were busy but they called gerrymandering. Which basically steal so that seat which is gonna happen again in twenty AT stay away. I think I think what is your point the insured with Donald Trump has not the best paralleled those because he too might big engage in identity policy act and a friend and I all not not which is why people. When you've just come out the gate with. There's something wrong with the U right. That group goes wait a minute wait a minute. I need to protect myself because you all don't get so I. I don't know. I thought much about what bill is talking about because what I recognizes. That you know. I listened to how people treated the last president who wasn't close up and included lots of wiping it. Yeah included everybody he's. And so. We got reintroduced to the Klan and everybody else and Saddam popped out and I'm sorry why do you love always run the country. And when you say let's send. This isn't working here here that's not setting you up to call you and asked what gets people called fists. Is there response to things if you're saying you know I don't like you because you're in this thing like black lives matter. As opposed to what exactly is it sock and I understand it and how come all these white people and Latino people in glee people all these people are plotted black lives Matt Bryant this is an inclusion that people don't say yeah. A lot of people march and for this we should pay attention as opposed to you know all it say. It's I don't want China crescent what I I think he's trying to do actually is reform the Democratic Party. Over I did what he's saying is not oftentimes I feel this as a they talk about things related to my ovaries islands come back and I say John FAA is now out but they did what but jobs and health care also of women's issues to. And I think that's what we'll. You think they're offering is not that's part of that he saw that windows I think in this campaign in particular because it was a woman president you heard a lot of Rick the glass ceiling vote for her because she's a Alan I. Hate what you are what you have a candidate woman may you not know that we want to send things. When what does that say I didn't and I something but I'm and when we didn't we reduce. I'm saying if I understand why there are politics and identifiable group that would put all women's college it's because we couldn't go to other schools. At the time when they read about I'd get action people should kill each other up Indian east hurtful when it's the only flag in fly. You're missing the uniting factor except that when it's the only flag that's flown against you like at what I was gonna say to you about identity politics enough people would walk up to people say. You just voted for our Brock Obama cause your black. At cousin was the best candidate because. You don't people don't assume that we are Smart enough to recognize the better candidate. People get uneasy about Hillary. Thank you wouldn't have voted for Ben Carson no I well frankly cannot be and let's get. But it isn't old it's insulting to speak to millions of principles to support the woman nobody clash and want to place. Send all time you may have heard that from people my heart I might treat my gender or no did I stop my prensa well let's quit. The and we call Obama because using one hand I disagree with.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/rep-val-demings-advocates-gun-violence-prevention-capitol-47182362
Either abcnews.com. Viewers I'm Lana that I am joined now I want. Most. Profoundly. Powerful speakers during the pre campaign rally just now. And it. What. He. Oh I. And you know seen from every angle that's when your force there every right to believe. Too many hours you know. It. Apparently victims. Family members whether it. We can frame and with words what we want to. In the all. Until the American people like. This issue we. The political courage started with the White House. The issues. Keep you ever that we can't think and it's just. That starts with what you. Universal background check. If you're too dangerous flash apparently you're too dangerous walk into any. And die. President's and it was in the champions and asked why. It. President references every. And in Ethiopia and championed the Ford family. And their loved ones who brutally viciously. What. It's in. Public health and it. There isn't any content with. It any time. You know what I'm encouraged so. We're life. Of this issue and the American people hear it you. And I think we're in such a strange climate right now in Washington the American people are going to. And I believe time is why our voices to be loud and Everett before. Abu jubilee. The political Rio is moving in the right direction it's I am extremely. Keeping. We're gonna do it every day. This is. Our young people. We do our jobs. And do what we can to reduce the. Now you had very you also have the personal experience of being from portly and I'm representing gore plan. How how has that shaped and hasn't changed anyway your feelings about it or at a. In. It. It's. It. Oh I. Here now. It all the Orioles and we can happy moments of the house. I. Please. Works. Its. Oh. Place with. Tickets have forgotten or process drab. Any person could. Shop. And share. From an. We're better nation and we are responsible nation. And I'm gonna do everything. On the I. That. Freshman congressman and here. Is it odd is that thank you so much for tuning in and continue watching ABC news dot. Our coverage about this and other issues are happening here.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/comey-mildly-nauseous-fbi-affected-2016-election-47180061
FBI Director James Comey said today it makes him "mildly nauseous" to think the bureau might have influenced the 2016 presidential election, responding to questions from members of the Senate Judiciary Committee at an annual oversight hearing. Why was it necessary. To announce eleven days before a presidential election. If you were opening an investigation. On a new computer. Without any knowledge. Of what was in that computer. Why didn't you just do the investigation. As you would normally with no public announcement. Great question senator thank you. October 27. The investigative team that had finished the investigation in July focused and secretary Clinton's emails asked to meet with me. So I met with him that morning late morning in my conference room. And they laid out for me what they could see from the meta data on this Fella Anthony winners laptop that have been seized and on related case. What they could see from the meta data was that there were thousands. Of secretary Clinton's emails on that device. Including. What they thought might be the missing emails from her first three months as secretary of state. We never found any emails from her first three months she was using a Verizon Blackberry then and that's obviously a very important. Because if if there was evidence that she was acting with bad intent that's where would be in the first they weren't there look I just finish my answer senator. And so they came minutes that we can see thousands of emails. From the Clinton email domain including many many many. From the Verizon Clinton domain Blackberry domain. They said we think we got to get a search warrant to go get fees and the Department of Justice agreed we had to go to search war. So I agreed I authorize them to seek a search warrant and then I faced a choice and I've lived my entire career by the tradition. That if you can possibly avoid to avoid any action in the run up to election might have an impact whether it's a dog catcher election of president of the United States. But I sat there that morning and I could not see a door labeled no action here. I could see two doors and they were both actions one was labeled speak the other was labeled concealed. Because here's how I thought about not try to talk you into this but I want you know my thinking. Having repeatedly told this congress we are done and there's nothing there there's no case there is no case there. To restart. In a hugely significant way potentially find any emails that would reflect on her intent from the beginning. And not speak about it would require active concealment in my view. It's or stared at speak and conceals speak would be really bad. There's an election and eleven days Lordi that would be really bad concealing in my view would be catastrophic. Not just to the FBI but well beyond and honestly as between really bad and catastrophic. I said to my team we're got to walk into the world of really bad I've got to tell congress that we're re starting this not at some frivolous way in a hugely significant way. And the team also told me we cannot finish this work for the election. And then they worked night after night after night and they found thousands. Of new emails they found classified information on Anthony Weiner. Somehow. Her emails are being forwarded to Anthony Weiner including classified information by her assistant who met evident. And so they found thousands of new emails and and call me the Saturday night for the election and said thanks to the wizardry of our technology. We've only had to personally read 6000. We think we can finish tomorrow morning Sunday and so I met with them. And they said we found a lot of new stuff we did not find anything that changes our view. Of her intent. So were in the same place we were in July it hasn't changed our view and I asked them lots a questions and I said OK that's where you are but I also have to tell congress that were done. Look this terrible it makes me mildly and cautious to think that we might at some impact on the election. But honestly. It wouldn't change the decision everybody who disagrees with me has to come back to October 28 with me and stare at this and tell me what you would do. Which you speak for which you conceal. And I could be wrong. But we obviously made a decision between those two choices that even in hindsight it's been one of the world's most painful experiences. I would make that same decision I would not conceal that. On October 28 from the congress and I sent the letter to congress by the way people forget this either make a public announcement. I send a private letter to the chairs in the rankings the oversight committees did you know it's a distinction without a difference in the world of leaks. But it is he was very important and I tell them instead of concealing and regional people can disagree but that's the reason I made that choice. And it was a hard choice I still believe in retrospect the right choice as painful is this has been an upstart that the long answer.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/melania-trump-sends-pamela-anderson-note-russian-faux/story?id=47190426
The actress, an outspoken animal rights activist and an honorary director with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ( PETA), sent Trump in February a faux "eco-fur" coat that she custom-designed with Russian faux fur manufacturer Only Me. The coat was "a thank-you gift for the first lady's fur-free look at the presidential inauguration," PETA writes on its website. @flotus Dear Melania, Thank you for your sweet note. It is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace. Pamela Anderson (@pamfoundation) May 3, 2017 Anderson on Wednesday tweeted a photo of a letter signed by Trump on White House stationary, dated April 20, which reads, " I very much appreciative your sending the beautiful eco-faux fur from Only Me. I am grateful for your support and encouraging words; they mean a great deal. Together, we can empower more women to stand up for their beliefs." Along with the photo of Trump's letter, Anderson wrote, " Dear Melania, Thank you for your sweet note. It is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace." When Anderson sent the coat in February, she included a note which read, " Amid all the mania at the inauguration, you looked stunning in an outfit by Ralph Lauren—one of many fur-free designers. I am so happy that you chose not to wear fur! As first lady, you will help set style trends, and by remaining compassionate with your choices, you will warm the hearts of many."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/house-hold-vote-gop-health-care-bill-thursday/story?id=47191544
Play Eric Thayer/ Getty Images WATCH Kevin Mc Carthy announces House will vote Thursday on GOP health care bill House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy, R- California, told reporters Wednesday that he expects the vote on passage to occur between 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. Republican leaders and the White House spent the day Wednesday hunting for votes and are believed to be within striking distance of passing the measure. The margin is expected to be razor-thin. According to Mc Carthy, the House Rules Committee will meet this evening to set the parameters of debate on the floor. Opponents of the bill are already attacking Republicans for scheduling a vote before the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has analyzed the amended bill. The CBO score would project the effects of the bill -- the changes in the number of insured and premiums, and its impact on the federal deficit. “ Forcing a vote without a CBO score shows that Republicans are terrified of the public learning the full consequences of their plan to push Americans with pre-existing conditions into the cold," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- California, said in a statement. " But tomorrow, House Republicans are going to tattoo this moral monstrosity to their foreheads, and the American people will hold them accountable.” The CBO's most recent analysis of the of the American Health Care Act projected that 24 million more people would be uninsured by 2026 -- with 14 million more uninsured in the first year, compared to Obamacare. Under budgetary rules, the Senate cannot take up the health care bill without receiving a CBO score, meaning the estimated impact of the measure will be known before the Senate considers it. In addition to the American Health Care Act, the House will also consider H. R. 2192, companion legislation to make a technical fix preventing members of Congress and staff from exempting themselves from the AHCA.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/house-passes-obamacare-replacement-bill/story?id=47200247
House Republicans have passed their ambitious plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, after several fits and starts, sending the measure to the Senate, where it is expected to be significantly revised. Following the House vote, House Republicans celebrated with a press conference at the White House Rose Garden with President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price. Trump touted the bill as a "great plan" even though they got "no support from the other party." He congratulated and thanked House Speaker Paul Ryan and praised House Republicans for coming together. " This has really brought the Republican Party together," Trump added. " As much as we've come up with a really incredible health care plan, this has brought the Republican Party together. We're going to get this finished." Even though the bill has passed the House, there are major roadblocks ahead in the Senate, where the bill is expected to undergo significant changes. However, Trump said he feels "confident" the bill will pass through the Senate and said it "will get even better." " It's going to be an unbelievable victory when we get it through the Senate and there's so much spirit there," Trump said. “ Make no mistake, many people will die as a result of this bill,” Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D- Florida, said. Republicans, who have been promising to repeal and replace Obamacare for seven years but have struggled to coalesce around a specific legislative proposal, said they planned on keeping their promise to constituents. “ Our constituents did not elect us to do what is easy. They elected us to do what is right,” Rep. Diane Black, R- Tennessee, the chairwoman of the House Budget Committee, said on the floor. Republicans rallied at the Capitol this morning before the vote, listening to the “ Rocky” theme song. House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy of California showed Republicans a photo of Gen. George Patton with a quote from him, “ Accept the challenge so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory.” Rep. Ann Wagner of Missouri told ABC News that the meeting was “all smiles” and that “the line of the day was out of ‘ Braveheart’ — ‘ Freedom!’” While Republicans held the vote without an updated analysis of its effects from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, many defended the decision to move forward without the projections. “ I know we’re doing the right thing,” freshman Rep. Brian Mast, R- Florida, an Army vet who lost both legs in Afghanistan and represents a swing district, told reporters as he left the meeting. An earlier analysis of the bill from the CBO -- before several amendments were added -- projected that 24 million additional Americans would be uninsured by 2026 and that it would reduce the deficit by $337 billion, compared to the Affordable Cart Act. The bill also restructures Medicaid payments to the states, reducing federal spending. A compromise amendment designed to attract votes would give states the ability to opt out of certain Obamacare provisions, including essential health benefits requiring coverage of mental health services, prescription drugs and maternity care. The amendment would also allow states to opt out of another mandate that prevents insurers from charging consumers with pre-existing conditions more for coverage.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-visit-israel-vatican-saudi-arabia-foreign-trip/story?id=47203934
President Donald Trump is expected to visit Israel, the Vatican and Saudi Arabia later this month on his first foreign trip as president, two senior administration officials confirmed for ABC News. A senior administration official said that Saudi Arabia will be the first country visited and that the symbolism is intentional. The stop deviates from the pattern of the last five presidents, who visited the United States' neighbors, Canada ( Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and George H. W. Bush) and Mexico ( George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan) first. The official explained: “the reason why we chose the Saudis first is because they are the custodians of the two Holy Mosques.” Asked for elaboration, the official added, " We thought that was very important because obviously people have tried to portray the president in a certain way, but I think that what he wants to do is solve the same problem that a lot of the leaders in the Islamic world want to do." The official explained that the administration expects Saudi Arabia to bring together a number of leaders from majority- Muslim countries in order to discuss common interests as a group. " We thought that that was a good place to start and look one of the biggest problems that we face in the world today is radical extremism and we have to combat," said the official. According to the official, the transition team started working with the Saudis on the visit shortly after the election.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/senate-vote-government-funding-bill-today/story?id=47203176
The Senate has passed a $1 trillion omnibus spending bill that would keep the government running until September, with a vote of 79-18. Last Friday, Congress passed a short-term measure funding the government for one more week, giving lawmakers additional time to tie up loose ends. The resulting deal, reached late Sunday night, includes a $15 billion boost in funding for the military. The spending bill also contains $1.5 billion for border security. However, it leaves out funding for the wall that Trump wants to build on the U. S.- Mexico border but includes funds for Planned Parenthood and so-called sanctuary cities. “ After years of partisan bickering and gridlock, this bill is a clear win for the American people,” Trump said Tuesday from the Oval Office. “ It’s been a very hotly contested budget because, as you know, we have to go through a long and rigorous process.” “ I think that Democrats cleaned our clock,” Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- S. C., told CNN in an interview on Tuesday. “ This was not winning from the Republican point of view.” If Trump signs the bill, Congress will avoid a government shutdown until at least September, when funding would next run out.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-signs-executive-order-ease-restrictions-religious-participation/story?id=47190000
Play Evan Vucci/ AP Photo WATCH Trump signs executive order to ease restrictions on religious participation in politics President Donald Trump has signed an executive order Thursday with the intention of easing restrictions imposed by the Johnson Amendment, the rule limiting political participation by tax-exempt religious groups. " Faith is deeply embedded into the history of our country, the spirit of our founding and the soul of our nation," Trump told supporters gathered in the Rose Garden on Thursday. " We will not allow people of faith to be targeted, bullied or silenced anymore." The order's signing, coinciding with the National Day of Prayer, fulfills a key campaign promise by Trump, who once told a crowd of religious leaders that he envisioned a future in which they would be able to openly support political candidates. The amendment, originally a part of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, prevents all 501(c)(3) non-profit organizations from advocating for political candidates. Trump said on Thursday that the federal government has "used the power of the state as a weapon against people of faith." “ No one should be censoring sermons or targeting pastors,” Trump said to applause. “ You are now in a position where you can say what you want to say ... We are giving the churches their voices back.” An alteration to the Internal Revenue Code -- which was adjusted in 1986 but continued to include Johnson Amendment -- would require an act of Congress, but Trump can influence how it is enforced. Sources told ABC News that the order instructs the Treasury Department not to target the tax-exempt status of churches and other institutions for supporting political candidates, which is currently forbidden. In February at the National Prayer Breakfast, Trump promised to "destroy" the Johnson Amendment, saying that religious freedom was "under threat all around us" and that he's never "seen it so much and so openly as since I took the position of president." " It was the great Thomas Jefferson who said, ' The God who gave us life gave us liberty," said Trump at the breakfast. " Jefferson asked, ' Can the liberties of a nation be secure when we have removed a conviction that these liberties are the gift of God?' Among those freedoms is the right to worship according to our own beliefs." Trump added, " That is why I will get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson Amendment and allow our representatives of faith to speak freely and without fear of retribution." Prior to the election in November, Trump told the audience at a Virginia rally, " I think it's very unfair, and one of the things I will do very early in my administration is to get rid of the Johnson Amendment so that our great pastors and ministers, rabbis and everybody and priests and everybody can go and tell and can participate in the process." Some supporters of the Johnson Amendment claim that organizations receiving tax exemption from the government should not directly engage with those who could determine whether to increase or decrease their benefits. Those opposed claim it violates the First Amendment's freedom of speech protections. Trump also announced that his first foreign visits as president would be to Saudi Arabia, Israel and The Vatican, mentioning each country's religious foundations.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-meet-australian-prime-minister-attend-intrepid-event/story?id=47187711
Play Getty Images | Reuters WATCH Trump to meet Australian prime minister, attend Intrepid event in NYC President Donald Trump had kind words for the Australian health care system at a meeting with that country's prime minister Thursday, just hours after Republican members of Congress succeeded in passing their efforts to roll back the Affordable Care Act. “ We have a failing health care -- I shouldn't say this to our great gentleman and my friend from Australia because you have better health care than we do," said Trump. The remarks were quickly seized upon by progressive critics of the president, including Sen. Bernie Sanders, I- Vermont, who have long advocated for a government-run universal health care option, similar to Australia's Medicare system. " The president has just said it. That's great. Let's take a look at the Australian health care system, and let's move," said Sanders shortly afterward in an interview on MSNBC. " Maybe he wants to take a look at the Canadian health care system or systems throughout Europe. Thank you, Mr. President. Let us move to a Medicare-for-all system that does what every other major country does." Trump's comments came as he and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull met with the press during a visit to New York City. The pair met in-person for the first time before attending a dinner celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea in World War II aboard the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum. Trump's first conversation with Turnbull came in a heated January phone call in which the newly inaugurated president became upset over a deal between the countries for the U. S. to accept refugees for Australia. Trump tweeted in the aftermath that he would "study this dumb deal!" while Turnbull denied reports that he was hung up on. Do you believe it? The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia. Why? I will study this dumb deal!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) February 2, 2017 The president addressed the call at the top of his remarks at Thursday's dinner, saying that the two "didn't have a rough phone call." " Everyone is talking about this phone call, the media is saying, ' What do you think about the phone call? You didn't really hang up,'" said Trump. " No, we had actually a very nice call." The pair got off to a late start Thursday afternoon after Trump delayed his departure for New York in order to hold a White House Rose Garden press conference with Congressional Republicans following the health care bill's vote. After a bilateral meeting, Trump and Turnbull attended the black tie gala to honor those who fought in the Battle of Coral Sea, celebrate the American- Australian relationship and establish an American- Australian Veterans' Scholarship Fund. " Together we discussed crucial issues ranging from national security to trade to immigration and enhanced economic cooperation," said Trump of his meeting with Turnbull in his speech. " We reaffirmed the tremendous friendship between the United States and Australia and the vital importance of our security and our alliance." The American Australian Association -- to which Trump claimed he has "been contributing to ... for years" -- hosted the dinner and noted that the "critical" 1942 "battle that saved Australia" was the "first defeat suffered by the Empire of Japan and stopped the looming Japanese invasion of Australia." The navies of the U. S. and Australia successfully cooperated to prevent an invasion of Japanese ships. The president recognized seven of the battle's surviving sailors in attendance at the gala, saying, " These men stood at the breach in the battle to save civilization and their sacrifice kept us free free." " They saw enemy planes flying toward them by the dozen. They saw the flames erupt into the air, and they saw the true cost of war in the faces of the heroes that never returned," said Trump. " On this special gathering, on this special night, we remember the courage of these men and every man, Australian and American, who fought in the Battle of the Coral Sea." The meeting with Trump was Turnbull's second with a member of the executive branch in the past month. In April, Vice President Mike Pence met with the Australian prime minister as part of a trip through Asia and Australia. During the visit, Turnbull pledged to continue the "intimate" relationship between the two countries.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/health-care-experts-amendment-falls-short-pre-existing/story?id=47186752
Amendment to Trump’s health care bill falls short on pre-existing conditions, analysts say - ABC News An amendment to President Trump's health care proposal does not go far enough in keeping protections for people with pre-existing conditions, according to analysts and an AARP spokesperson. The protections are an area of rare bipartisan agreement on the Affordable Care Act: Even President Trump has said he wants to keep that key feature. But under the current bill, states could seek a waiver so insurance companies could discriminate against such people, rate them separately and charge them much higher premiums. It is unclear how many states would opt to do that. Before the ACA, the majority of states did not have protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Instead their sickest residents and most expensive ones to treat were often helped through state-run high-risk pools. As a compromise to allay fears from lawmakers who are uneasy about gutting these protections, a few members today unveiled an amendment that would allocate $8 billion in additional funds to help states run these high-risk pools. Critics of the effort said $8 billion would be just a drop in the bucket and would not cover the majority of people with pre-existing conditions, who would be at risk of seeing their premiums skyrocket under the Republican health care bill under consideration in the House of Representatives, according to several think tanks and health care experts. AARP, which advocates for the interests of older Americans, was quick to tweet after the amendment was announced Wednesday morning that it is still opposed to the bill. It is urging its members to call their representatives and urge them to vote "no." Upton amendment = "protection" for patients with pre-existing conditions in name only. # No AHCA Advocates (@ AARPadvocates) May 3, 2017 Upton Amendment: $8 billion giveaway to insurance companies; won't help majority of those w/preexisting conditions. We remain opposed. AARP Advocates (@ AARPadvocates) May 3, 2017 Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation, which is focused on health reform and private insurance markets, said that relatively speaking, $8 billion "is not a lot of money." She estimated that would be enough to cover a couple hundred thousand people — nowhere near the 5 million to 10 million people with pre-existing conditions that the foundation estimates have insurance through the individual markets. The most expensive 10 percent of the population accounts for 50 percent of health care costs, said Pollitz. " High risk is high-high. These are not people who need a Band- Aid for a scraped knee. They need chemotherapy and organ transplants and hospital bills." Matt Fielder, a fellow for health policy at the Brookings Institution, echoed that sentiment. He said $8 billion would be "far short" of what states would need to avoid large premium increases for people with existing conditions. He estimated that the total claims in individual marketplaces accounted for about $500 billion and that just over half of that came from people with pre-existing conditions who would have been denied or priced out of the individual insurance market before the ACA. He added that the additional money Republicans included in the House bill was supposed to be allocated in the Senate to improve the law and help states in other ways, such as boosting tax credits. He said that by redirecting funds, House Republicans may be "worsening problems somewhere else in the bill."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/susan-rice-declines-invitation-testify-senate-judiciary-panel/story?id=47190254
Play Cheriss May/ Nur Photo via Getty Images WATCH Trump offers no evidence in claim that Susan Rice committed a crime President Barack Obama’s former national security adviser Susan Rice said she will not testify before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee chaired by Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- South Carolina, because, her lawyer said, the request was not bipartisan in nature. In a letter to Graham and the panel’s top Democrat, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D- Rhode Island, Rice’s lawyer Kathryn Ruemmler, former counsel to Obama, said Rice is ready to help congressional inquiries into Russian election interference as long as the investigations are bipartisan. But Ruemmler noted that Whitehouse wrote a letter to Rice’s team saying that he did not sign on to Sen. Graham’s invitation to Rice, which they called "a significant departure from the bipartisan invitations extended to other witnesses." " Under these circumstances, Ambassador Rice respectfully declines Senator Graham’s invitation to testify," the letter continues. Graham said he wanted Rice to testify at next week's hearing along with former acting Attorney General Sally Yates and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper. Ruemmler said Rice also had concerns about how rare it is for former senior advisers to the president to testify before Congress and about how Graham had given her less than two weeks to respond to the invitation, but that she would have been willing to overlook those concerns had the invitation been approved by both Graham and Whitehouse.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/protesters-await-president-trump-intrepid-47221100
ABC News' Josh Haskell talks to protesters gathered outside the aircraft carrier Intrepid ahead of President Trump's remarks. Present sharp is inside the interpret right now at a dinner at the Australian prime minister. He arrived roughly twenty minutes ago and as his motorcade passed her on the west side highway. The protesters where we are right now as you can see down the line they were doing and screaming this present from his first trip back to New York City. Since going to Washington DC for his inauguration and moving into the white. So how would you welcome back his motorcade came on the west side highway. Looked out the window right there and saw this crowd of protesters and then pulled into the intrepid and where he'll be for about two hours. Until he leaves. And heads back to Washington urged actually driving Tibetan insert New Jersey. This evening to spend the weekend error one of its properties with his family. And so what actually walked on the line and talked to some of these protests it has been that little bit they're still making a lot of noise so much noise. That you can hear it inside the intrepid Traci we were just talking about what was it like when president from motorcade pass and he arrived here in Manhattan. I think we were all revolted. This mid stands for. A great deal of the attack and democracy in this country that he is that there's so it's all the strategy. We have to drive him out because he's consolidating power today by a witness the decree which. Accidentally that the medieval ages three tell us about to sign a you have. Well I I like this group once it's about dried out trumpets. The fascist regime. We are group called refuse fascism that work. The very serious well educated group. You've done. There's studies and history we know what a fascist and starts. We're already past ghost side. And this country that a week yes there. Does your does your station at any viewpoint what so. You know the conscience you ever take acutely. And here we cure right now of getting your opinion should take a few points. Gorgeous here reporting the news. To our viewers. And so we're gonna continue to move down the line at talked to other protesters but I appreciate you taking the time to talk to us if you get the right. There's we walked down the line right here. I see a lot of protesters. The you know not Traci in particular but a lot of these people I've seen at other protests at other rallies in DC in other places. And they've been cut off following Donald Trump. Where he goes except tonight. You're fighting a lot of New Yorkers knew. Just said you know he's back in my town not his town that that's been a big theme let's talk to this gentleman right here. Sir we were chatting early what was it like when a present from motorcade came by. Well an electrified the crowd and not in a good way I mean I think everybody here is death. It's to show him that he's not welcome in New York because himself in New York here is not a new York at the city hates them. If we voted overwhelmingly for Hillary Clinton is not welcome here he doesn't reflect well on New York. The man is an abomination. And we're here to tell himself. In the -- sixty election present trump got 18% of the vote here this is first time back since moving to Washington DC. What do you think the impression he's been hill gap as it's that it. A lot's happened a hundred days it seems like a lot of people. Feel like he's done a lot a lot has changed. But of course it's only been a hundred days. Well number one I don't think anything's changed it's been pretty backlit so far. He's probably got the impression that New York loves him. You probably think these people it's hearing for him the man is delusional. Where O' Hare have voice our opinion that he is he's not welcome here. I don't think he has any idea because I think his grasp on reality is really tenuous what was your reaction today when. Congress. Decided to pass the bill to repeal and replace of course it's a loss to pass the senate. But that was deftly a victory for president trumpet all right. Well I think it's appalling because I work in the health care industry in my wife as a doctor here in New York. And we're both a hold of what happens this is turning back the pages on health care for Americans I think a lot of Americans again software. That might be a two years are now three years are now. But it'll it'll be an after the catastrophe that goodness this is not gonna get my senate and might be good these congressman to go home city repeal Obama care. But the truth is wanted in the senate it it's going to be meaningless the Senate's got to do what they want to let them. What's your first and last name sir my name is Gavin my husband is David and urine resident New York City I am Manhattan 84 street represent. Thank you so much for taking on Iraq or us. Let's walk down just a little bit. As I mentioned the thing that the crowds starting to thin. Little some people leaving. President trump still inside he's going to be here about. Another hour having dinner speaking to and we'll have full coverage. His speech his remarks in a scene out here. When he leaves and heads to bed mr. New Jersey suffered on ABC's Josh Haskell live outside that intrepid on the west side of Manhattan. And lovable coverage state statement. ABC News' Josh Haskell talks to protesters gathered outside the aircraft carrier Intrepid ahead of President Trump's arrival in New York City.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/gop-healthcare-passes-house-scoring-president-trump-legislative-47220721
GOP healthcare passes in the house scoring President Trump his first legislative victory Video - ABC News House votes to repeal and replace Obamacare, President Trump invites triumphant republicans to victory celebration in the Rose Garden. And we begin tonight with a major victory for president trump. His new plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, passing the house by the slimmest of margins. Surrounded by Republicans at the white house, the president saying this is the death of Obamacare. But lawmakers voted without the final bill ever being scored as they say in Washington. Meaning they voted without knowing how many fewer Americans would be insured. What it means for you, from pre-existing conditions to your premiums. Mary Bruce. Reporter: At the white house today, Republicans celebrating a victory seven years in the making. Make no mistake. This is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. Make no mistake about it. Reporter: It's not a done deal. President trump, relishing a much-needed win. How am I doing? Am I doing okay? I'm president. Hey, I'm president. Can you believe it? Reporter: After weeks of false starts and tense negotiations, today house Republicans were giddy, pumping themselves up before the big vote with the theme song to " Rocky." The line was, you know, out of " Braveheart." Freedom! Reporter: But outside the capitol, clear signs of a country divided. Shame, shame, shame! Reporter: For weeks, those divisions on display across the country too. But house Republicans pushed on. Are we going to be men and women of our word? Yes. Are we going to keep promises that we made? Yes. Reporter: The bill passing the house today by the slimmest of margins, just one vote. Here's how it could affect you. Obamacare requires all Americans to have health insurance or pay a penalty. The Republican bill eliminates that requirement. Obamacare gives Americans money to buy insurance on their own. The Republican bill replaces that with tax credits. Obamacare expanded medicaid. The Republican bill would roll back that expansion. Here's what some Republicans say night. We're immediately reducing premiums saving billions and billions of dollars. Reporter: But by one estimate, 24 more million Americans would be uninsured over the next decade. A 64-year old earning about $26,000 a year would see their annual premiums spike by nearly $13,000. After seven years, you came up with this? You got to be kidding me.@ Reporter: The bill could also weaken the popular Obamacare provision protecting people with pre-existing conditions. By one estimate, 27% of Americans have one, and in some states, that number is even higher, more than 32% of those living in West Virginia, Mississippi, Kentucky, Alabama and Tennessee, all states that voted for president trump. Are you going to make sure that people with pre-conditions are still covered? Yes, because it happens to be one of the strongest assets. Reporter: But the Republican bill allows states to opt out so insurance companies could charge some people with pre-existing conditions more. It would give states $8 billion over five years to help cover those people. But hundreds of leading patient and health groups call that a drop in the bucket. The bill would also allow states to opt out of requiring insurance companies to cover some so-called " Essential health benefits," like ambulances and maternity care. Experts say less coverage could mean lower premiums for many people. Is this now trumpcare? This isn't trumpcare. This is an ability to give people the choice to pick their own care. I think that's what's most important. Reporter: But with the midterm elections fas fast pretty muching, Democrats are are eager to make sure Republicans own this, and that Americans know who is in this picture. You have every provision of this bill tattoos on your forehead. You will glow in the dark on this one. You'll glow in the dark. Mary Bruce with live on capitol hill tonight. Mary, as you reported there, it passed the house by one vote. It now goes to the senate. What kind of fight does the president face with this. Reporter: This bill faces a steep fight. They're eagerly waiting for the scoring on the bill. Tonight, senate Republicans already say they'll work on an entirely new bill. David. Mary Bruce leading us off Chanting on the floor ofhe house. Democrats taunting Republicans on the floor. Waving good-bye to them. Let's get right to white house correspondent Jonathan Karl. You saw the moment. Let's play it foreveryone here. ??? Good-bye ??? Protesting any repeal of Obamacare, popularity of Obamacare going up in recent weeks. You saw some of that anger in town halls across the country before this vote. People concerned about what the changes would mean for their own health care. This was a big legislative victory for the president today. But Democrats hope they can turn this into a liability for in the elections next year. Their top targets will be 23 house Republicans who are in districts that Hillary Clinton won. David, more than half of them voted for this bill, that will be something they'll have to answer for. Overall, Obamacare is more popular than it's been. In fact in our poll, 37% said they wanted it repealed and replaced. Jon Karl, thanks to you as well. Speaker Ryan says he told President Donald Trump that the "best thing to do" was pull the healthcare bill, and he agreed. House Republicans have passed their ambitious plan to repeal and replace Obamacare after several fits and starts, sending the measure to the Senate, where it is expected to be significantly revised.
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/trump-promises-religious-leaders-give-houses-worship-voices-47220247
New executive order directs the IRS to relax enforcement barring churches and other tax-exempt religious groups from political activity. President trump arriving home tonight in New York City. His first trip back to New York since the inauguration. Along with his victory on health care the white house announcing his first overseas trip, first trip Saudi Arabia, what message is he sending to the Muslim world. And religious organizations more freedom to endorse political candidates. All of this comes with a meeting with the pope. ABC's Cecilia Vega tonight. Reporter: President trump today, surrounded by religious leaders, promising to give churches their voices back. Under my administration, free speech does not end at the steps of a cathedral or a synagogue or any other house of worship. Reporter: His new executive order directs the irs to relax enforcement of rules barring churches and other tax-exempt religious groups from political activity, like endorsing and campaigning for candidates. It also promises unspecified relief for organizations that claim a religious objection to an Obamacare mandate, requiring them to cover contraception in their healthcare plans. But the order does not go as far as some faith leaders hoped and many activists feared. There is nothing in it that weakens obama-era protections for gays and lesbians. And others. Most importantly, I brought my bible. Reporter: For president trump, this is about showing some love to the evangelicals who helped propel him to the white house, the president winning their vote 81% to 16%. We will not allow people of faith to be targeted, bullied or silenced anymore. Cecilia Vega live with us tonight in New York City. Cecilia, we're learning more about the president's first foreign trip, Saudi Arabia, what kind of message is he hoping to send with that being the first stop on the agenda. Most presidents visit a friendly ally, Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Islam. The white house says the president wants to send a message that he wants to solve the same world problems that leaders of the Muslim world want to solve. He'll STO in the Vatican for a visit with pope Francis. Cecilia Vega. We turn next tonight to another breaking headline this evening, delta airlines issuing
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/protesters-gather-capitol-hill-health-care-vote-47218411
Who is talking about how this was not actually a popular move when it comes to what most Americans want the majority of Americans do support or did support rather. The Affordable Care Act Austin is Obama care and there are some folks protesting. Outside. There today on his act is outside there on Capitol Hill talking to some of those folks lining you were also in the room when it happened so tell me what's going on there. I airing out though I'm actually situated right now in the next it. Opposition right now. It behind me the capital stats. He remembers coming back critical vote. It feels like obamacare tells across the street turnaround. You can see the protesters. Over there. People are coming out at numbers are coming out Republican members and hear the people shouting shame on you shame on you. They've been out here since this morning I've been talking with several of them. Feel like. Still advocates put together that it does not adequately protect people. I'm really concerned about. That late amendment that allowed them this version of the bill rather. That allows states to opt out of until health care benefits I spoke with one on one mother who felt like. Daughter would not able. Have been she was alive at this point and and certainly about. The future if not for the portable air act. All right back in. More with Ryan to come out. He gave hurt eats eats following. Minority leader Nancy Pelosi is out there on the apple I have to say that energy in that room with Republicans and Democrats they still fired up there. Democrats feel like several ways that. The best way for them to regain principal. Or at least get them more control. Here in Washington as you heard god I'll say that that they electability radioactive. Speaker Pelosi even said that members who vote in favor of it. That bill today are going to impact. Glow in the dark because at that rate. And comment you apparently forget Mort that I'm gonna want them here a little bit and point out something to you. These are the buses we saw them come out early here today Capitol Hill. What they were going here or I asked capitol police. It that was in response to the protesters being on one kind of capital and in the numbers coming out here. And now they're actually those that need action. Hours are warning to ride to the White House that victory celebration. The other thing about the celebration here we also. Been told that they work hard and here that have been wheeled and overjoyed in the house today about how things went they felt like it was a big failure last time when they were un able to successfully. This bill because. Parties were balking at it that today. I feel like it. Want you to hang there and if you can catch some of those members as they come out I imagine if you that'll probably wanna get on the record and I didn't Eilat. I'm them them. Here it's not to represent it and I'm leaning Everett islet. But in opposition's. This legislation. Think that he said to me at leading EST squeeze my hand and that the fight continues they are looking to make it and part of the discussion at the as Democrats. In seeing these midterm elections but remember this isn't even though the bill has passed in the house. It's still have a long way to go in the senate and they're looking to turn out opposition on all levels to try and insert that this bill never actually become. I want to back up on Capitol Hill for a. The GOP health care bill has cleared the House but it still faces an uphill battle before it becomes law, Jon Karl reports. Rep. Fred Upton, R- Mich. said he will not support the GOP's health care reform bill, pushing Republicans to the brink of not having enough votes to pass the legislation.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/protesters-gather-intrepid-ahead-trumps-arrival-47217287
ABC News' Josh Haskell talks to protesters gathered outside the aircraft carrier Intrepid ahead of President Trump's arrival in New York City. It's been over three months. Present all of this come home to New York City and in Washington DC. He's coming here tonight and these protesters wanted to know as they've been telling me the last hour they think he is not welcome. In New York City. They are gonna be greeting him as president trump arrived. Offered event at the instructed the decommissioned aircraft carrier sitting in the Hudson River we are on the west side of Manhattan I'm BC's Josh Haskell. Very busy day for present from his administration as they pass that repeal and replace bill in the House of Representatives. Repealing and replacing obamacare a lot of people here talking about that let's get right to some of those voices. James and leave I was talking to you guys earlier relied on digital would your reaction today to the health care. News. Congress. A and latest. Obama clear which. And if it. But I'm happy. What the Democrats could talk after all of that republic and they begin to feed. This bill. They're going to stop coming to the gimmick threat that knowing that. There congress and. Didn't do not have interests that marred with Sunni do you think that in the long term this helps Democrats think it will. The mid term elections that will help. But what about you James. I think that this the republic. In an. Broke forth that really pressured to pass this bill it was dropped eat. Some victory went to the pyrrhic victory Italy a light means that. To be a disaster because that's going to bomb. Millions and millions of people who just coming out of. Health care in the emergency ward the hospitals is that it was an act and that is if they have and I have a right through the young man. Student. And he's finally got a job full time job for the first time in eight years. He's got out. Great going to get docked them. He's thirty years old and you believe that what happened today is gonna change that I don't know he's living in New York it may not be. But in much of the country. Health care is very fragile. And and and Mason. For me single pay it's what we really need like they've had in Scandinavia. Where they haven't civilized country. It Jane's world right now all long the west side highway on Manhattan's. I don't know the exact route their presidential motorcade will take but it is motorcade does go right by you on the way to the intrepid. Local youths shout at his motorcade would you like indeed here. Well. I think he's going to get it earful today. I'll be screaming along with these unjust the public be well. I don't think mr. trump is capable of learning. Anything. And so he he'll just double down on his own his anger. And and resentments. And will try to an ever. He wants it be and Oregon. In America. And he would just love to have the power that that. Recent pentagon has been Turkey and it's not gonna happen. But when our country is in danger at this point our country is definitely Anthony. Wolf thank you James let's move down the line and talk to gat real we are speaking earlier. We are right across street the intrepid there's a lot of walking by going to this dinner tonight out. You can protestor what are you shouting and telling. It's got to it is an interesting contrast here the protesters and people in tuxedos heading to the dinner tonight. That their contract and what people accepting this name. And I think people should feel ashamed for proceeding as if everything is in the room. Donald Trump is not a normal as. And we need to keep acting out an acting up and people who work going on like this is just Republican presidents. I'm making a big mistake he's a danger to our country I'm not happy with the GOP's either I know that they have a lot of blame as well. But I think carrying on all these nice fifteen minute bands and. Arranging mine. The particular event tonight it is to commemorate the 75 anniversary of a World War II battle between Australia in the US. Of course Australia's prime minister Malcolm Turnbull will be here is way apple all going on. On that aircraft carrier but this is pres Trump's first trip in over three months home. Has a lot change you think in his first hundred days from when he left. To move to Washington DC. Here and and and country I mean how are things different which he said. I think it I think people learn more as well again seeing what's going on in the country on the greens. You know just going on for the last many many years. I think a lot more political acted. Okay. People shouting as some cars go by in upon here they have not close the site yet there are some reports that they may close at once the president arrives. But we're not at that point yet still about an hour. Till we think that will happen everything influx of course. This day he was supposed to be here earlier was gonna have a meeting the prime minister near trump tower the Peninsula Hotel. That was rhapsody could stay in DC. And address what happens in congress with health care what was your reaction to what happened today. I was actually at work but I watched the last five minutes the city's ban and personally I mean. That made me very sad that Obama had worked so hard maintenance. We need health care and it got very angry looking at the cell feed them while Ryan and the rest and com. White Plains and nothing has just been as good as it. I'm very angry very. And activated as well also. In I'm gonna keep getting out in the streets and calling every day I call my. Yeah. Okay. There. You've called your representatives and you guys were able. To help defeat. The repeal replace obamacare once but it may not work and this. I am learned about Santa feel like we need sued. Love yeah. Margaret Bennett and you know obviously when Neil Parsons was put on the Supreme Court and felt like that they loss. The so you know I'm aware that we might now win every fight lowers slowing everything down at the very least. And Amy getting more people aware that that we have to be Oakland have to speak to elect me. Tell us who lassie began gave ground accident. Real shot here from new York city new York and read. About it errant. Before you leave I just wanted to talk to Aaron good and we are speaking to earlier. From Oklahoma City bigger living here in New York City now working tell us why you came out here today to protest. Presents and. I can't protests I really think that the negative rhetoric. And foreign nations on immigration in particular. It's not acceptable. In a world leader particularly the president of the United States I think that's. Immigrants who make up an integral part of our economy as it is and soon. Go out on a limb and an unnamed man or. Negative contributions to the economy is news erroneous I don't I don't I don't think it's Paul. Tell us what's on your sign and what. It says it. As at last make this the land of opportunity for all people not just the owners it's up from the musical ragtime I don't know that it. Note that provision Aaron is an actor just sharing yeah yeah you can help. Yes and it's just. The sentiment I think. Is echoed in line in my heart for being here today. And so if president trumps motorcade goes right bias here in west side highway you plan to hold that sign up. And what is the one message do you really want to hear. Immigrants here immigrants have always been a part of America at immigrants are going to be. And yet a crucial part in the future of America. Thank you so much for talking to us. And as we take a step back right now just show you we are. In the area where protesters are gathered your west side of Manhattan there's the intrepid right over there it's kind of hard to miss. We're days. Big tourist attraction here in Manhattan in that areas completely closed off that is about as close as we can get. Any people were attending a big dinner tonight. They're walking right by us crossing the street in lining up. To go have dinner with the president you're the president's remarks will of course have full coverage. Those remarks on ABC news. As they stepped out of the way just to show you look more of the signs. This. Particular group of protesters extends about. One block there's another. Get down there but they haven't built yet I would guess that. There's about 500 protesters so far. I'm pretty loud here right along the west side highway and there's another protest area near trump tower of course the president was expected. You go to trump tower or that part of Manhattan. Hotel to be sacked. All the on going through DC today but we. Will sit. Here and not to. Long of the time and we'll bring you full coverage throughout the night for now on ABC's Josh Haskell live on the westside of Manhattan outside the intrepid. President Trump accused former President Barack Obama of being "behind" the protests that Republican members of Congress have encountered at town hall meetings across the country.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/house-passes-obamacare-replacement-bill-stays-47215427
ABC News' Amna Nawaz and Rick Klein discuss what features of ACA will remain in the GOP's newly passed health care bill. There are some things in this bill that we know our state right when it comes to some of the more popular provisions from the Affordable Care Act let's talk a little bit. About them this one was the provision that Xperia adults right you can actually stay in your parents' plan until you're 26 people seem to like that right. That's exactly right that's they is that that was never in play by anyone in meet the media aside from the people with that it wanted to repeal obamacare root and branch that was never under serious discussion. And even under this plan that he's ever obamacare remains intact. And the other part of what staying we do know right now that this bill bans insurers prime. And at and planning any kind of lifetime or annual limit right when it comes to the cost your coverage another popular piece of obamacare they just couldn't get rid. That's right that is an asterisk around that that we're gonna have to discuss it in a moment on the because there's a law that there's considerable leeway for states to opt out of portions of congress this via a coverage that could essentially mean. A lifetime ban but you're right the idea of lifetime bans coming up against people with chronic conditions. That that their cost a lot of money to to two to treat. They came up against those caps and those are those continue to beat on this bill. Our let's talk about what's gone these are some of the things ever talked about again and again Republicans and talking points and adds and so on. The idea of the individual mandate that is now call right. Yeah and this is the vehicle and when it comes the republicans' objections obamacare is that your requiring people. To buy health insurance Republicans viewed that as an infringement on liberty they went all the way the Supreme Court to try to challenge the constitutionality of that they lost very famously. But that's the flip side of that freeing people up and that responsibility from that an obligation of retaining coverage. If you're taking a lot of people out of the market who happens to be on the younger and healthier side that disrupts insurance markets all around the way.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/gops-health-care-bill-47215384
The GOP health care bill has cleared the House but it still faces an uphill battle before it becomes law, Jon Karl reports. John it's a big win for the White House is the first real big legislative win but what if it mean for them from momentum moving forward. Well it is a big win it's the biggest legislative achievement for this young presidency of Donald Trump's. Is one that we'll give him momentum as he looks forward to tax reform. And the other priorities he wants to push for later this year but this is a step in the process this is not a done deal they facing significantly. More difficult battle in the senate. Far from clear that this bill in any form. Can pass the senate I wouldn't say it's dead on arrival as many have have suggested I think there is a chance Republicans can pull off in the senate but it is will be a big. Big lift and then it when you heard Nancy Pelosi talk right before the vote in in the final statement for Democrats. She made it clear that this is something that they will use in the upcoming midterm elections she said it. Republicans who vote for this we'll have the provisions of this bill tattooed to their forehead she suggested the bill is radioactive. And it Republicans vote for will be low wage you can imagine that Democrats. Keying into what as Rick pointed out that. Early indications are that this is an on popular bill. All will try to make Republicans pay a significant price so yes a victory a big victory right now for president trump. But on clear it's going to be a permanent victory. All legislatively if they'll actually get this or something he can actually sign and even if so the real question will be how this plays politically a year from now. And on you've got around to keep got some buses coming your way you have. Yeah unbelievable they're they're bringing out that the president was supposed to of already left for a trip up to New York he's meeting with the Australian prime minister in New York City tonight. He was supposed to party left to delay that trip and there are bosses are there any minute now we excess expect to bring Republicans. From up there on Capitol Hill here for some kind of celebration or actually the president that it would VA a press conference. Us election that actually happens. ABC's John Karl at the White House thank them.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/gop-health-care-bill-affect-women-47215110
The House has passed a bill that imposes Planned Parenthood restrictions for Medicaid. ABC News' Amna Nawaz, Mary Alice Parks and Rick Klein discuss how the bill could further impact women Based on what we know today about what Republicans. And some Democrats did vote for let's continue to look at what is in this version today and how it could potentially impact. People there what is new in this bill were a couple of other things related specifically to women's house right in these are things that came up again and again and that a lot of the changes. That between Obama care the Affordable Care Act and this new Republican version. Specifically attacked the women when he came to the right to took away the coverage that was taken away things that were considered create an existing conditions once again. This is an is new and posing an abortion restriction on tax credits what does that mean when it comes to. I'd take that part of it out of it you still get it is they'll pay for it. It's still legal what you can't make it part of your health Robert this is a being sticking point for Republicans who tried to me. Some major provisions in their pro life platform part of this bill they also took away funding. From Medicaid for plant parent altogether even a planned parent it. Has long said that didn't spend any public dollars directly on abortion services we know that abortion is a good portion of their business. And beat the critique from conservatives has been that they take the money and they use it elsewhere and operations so planned parent hood. Essentially be funded through the Medicaid program is a very big source of funding for so those are major changes now the Republicans as have said look. This actually could mean more health clinics where women's health clinics at the community level getting money from the federal government. But that is top and there are big portions of the country. We're Planned Parenthood is the only real access to two abortion services to taking away that the the public funding at both wobbles funny but apparently it. And also for those tax credits there Medicaid. That's a big hit for people in and it's one less service that's going to be available a lot of votes. Who worth pointing out there Planned Parenthood and the services they provide only 3%. The services they provide actually go towards a portion service of the vast majority. Of the millions of people that they serve they deal with preventative care. And other kinds of screenings and health services there Mary Alice parks over on Capitol Hill I know you've been reporting out some of this information what's your take on the. Accent kind of want to put that pushed back at something that Rick set went service sound quite as sounds look at technical but is really interesting here. In the bill it has written actually says that you can't get a tax credit to pay for any insurance plan that covers abortions to whether or not didn't want it the plan covers it all you can't use that tax credit. Towards the plant. So what some people are worried about is that insurance companies will then just not offer plans that cover abortions at all. As people that are buying it plants comments that individual marketplace while guilty is a tax credit to buy them. So it's really trickle down a fax that I'm that could make a really big difference in terms of and your ability to access those services at all or even be covered. Have been covered you know it's really interesting talking about some of those specific women's issues again act on the senate we know that there number of moderate female senators that's aid these are poison pills for them they are not. Voting for this bill still contains and he of those measures. Important clarification there and and rake it's also worth noting here that. This kind of language exists in our current legislation a Hyde amendment does specifically prevent. Federal money for going for abortion services but this codified that it back and brought into the banks to health care plans in general at the plane even includes. Possibility of abortion services you can't use the tax credit in the bill to bias that's a very specific and firm stance house Republicans just talk. It is but it's not anyone on the the flip side of it is that this is something that Republicans ran on you heard from president trough in the campaign. They're Republicans control Washington this is a priority. In fact the the Democrats the supporters of planned parent it. I dodged the effort in this current budget bill it's also getting approved in this wacky day in Washington. 22 deep on Larry parent all altogether so that the critique a plan apparently is not new. We've known that it's coming and I think anyone that was looking for Republican conservative version of the health care reform act of expect its going to be a big part of a lot of things that are hidden in this bill guess is my point this isn't one of them. This is on it and very public about. They're asking the talk isn't as members ever on this and it's I do we know what some of those sticking points are going to be moving full ordered is that yet have to reveal itself. Well this is one that we're just talking about some of the Planned Parenthood finding that even. A lot of Republicans will not get behind but also those tax credits he talked a lot about whether or not those tax credits are big enough and provide. Enough help for people to buy insurance on the individual market there's a lot of Republicans that say it's just doesn't cut it it's not enough that leads people and alert and so they're gonna work. On the bill certainly sizing and figuring out how they can move money around to does some of those tax credits. We're also hearing a lot about that Medicaid expansion. There are Republicans at. We are comfortable with some of the ways that. States could restructure how base and Medicaid dollars it can really hurt some of the poorest Americans so I expect to see a lot of commitments around Medicaid and and changes. You can't can't make to house seats distribute Medicaid money.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/gop-health-care-bill-47215041
Members of the House have passed the Obamacare replacement bill, but what does it include? ABC News' Amna Nawaz and Rick Klein report. Recline with us down in the DC bureau let's talk a little bit about some of the details of this bill what is on we were talking about this before. From obamacare compared to the new bill now we know the individual mandate is gone that it always been a big deal for everybody should point out though. Before there with a penalty if you did not buy coverage they're still the possibility. Of a kind of penalty right they could impose a surcharge if you go more than 63 days with lapsed coverage right. He this is a particular thing to try to get people locked into the system it's provide predictability to the insurance companies if you go without coverage. They can charge you pretty hefty surcharge to come back on coverage so it is the idea is to try to prevent people from saying you know what I don't really need coverage now has a pretty healthy but something happens and they come back into the system. They do want people. All things being equal to to Access Health. Aren't thought about what else is gone that subsidies right. Means it's it did he need to replace my tax credits which may be a subsidy in another way but he is tied far less to the age of health condition of individuals so it means. For middle income people potentially a lot more money out of pocket because you just get that one time. Tax credit instead of the the Bork brought subsidy. And it means you can have higher deductibles higher co pays all along the way. That is a big part of the cost savings for the O for the entire system. Taking away from taking away those those tax subsidies that existed there are very generous essentially wiped out the obligation for a whole range of people. It's similar to what they're doing. Without with capping Medicaid enrollment they're they're phasing out the large expansion that was part of obamacare. And it means that for for poor people the states a leader pick up the slack or cut back on the service. And it also means I think that you know with that tax credit for those can be applied to your monthly cost. Of insurance coverage but not in the same way that the previous cost sharing subsidies. Could be applied to out of pocket expenses like he went to the doctor where he went to the hospital unexpectedly you could take some of the subsidy to fighting out of pocket expenses that's gone. With the tax credit as well right. That's right in there they've expanded health savings accounts but most of those health savings accounts of the past have been higher income people signing up so it's not clear what kind of particular support would be there for lower income individuals particular old particularly older ones that would have higher out of pocket costs they are going to be hit pretty hard by this potentially according to the unit and he analysis even from the Congressional Budget Office. Aren't let's talk about what is new now because there's a hot new we're still going through it here at ABC news the apt pupil points. We can starts to go through first out. The eight billion dollar number we've heard again and again preexisting conditions at the term we've heard again and again how to the to come together in this new. We'll hear some important points or on this on the first. This bill does guarantee coverage for people with preexisting conditions as the current law does but it does in a much different way because critically. It says to the individual states you can set up these markets and you can apply for waiver. You can say that instead of holding down costs for people with preexisting conditions you're gonna set up a tee it up pool of money. For people that are high risk that high risk pool is going to be subsidized by the federal government. To the tune of some eight billion dollars over a five year period now nobody really knows that's a good number on. The the congressman who put that forward said that he had heard from some experts that it was five's reason why not eight. That is just the guest guessing game could be no work clothes to pack one estimate out today. Said that it was maybe 5% of people could be covered on that. But that is the money that's gonna support people with the pre existing conditions for home insurance is prohibitively expensive because. People like that will be able to charged multiple times more than healthy individuals so it's a major change and this is gonna be one of the key. Kind of triggers in this law and now it's how it is how it actually is interpreted and what it means if it goes into effect. How did these people fair because president trump was clear I want people with preexisting conditions to be taking care you can do that and paper. But it's a bit like saying that you are I have access to. To buying a Porsche or Ferrari. Just because we could go buy one it doesn't mean you have the money. That's the problem with with access and that's the problem with people with preexisting conditions. This money seem to buy a whole bunch of votes on the Republican side moderates who want to be able to say you're taking care of these people. It's not clear that's even close to enough. Though and some of this what's and you also. It's in line with her Britain's summit the rights and responsibilities back to states are seeing there in the screen now this also allows. States to impose a Medicaid work requirement right meaning that anyone that they deem it able body has to show proof of work before they can apply for and received. Medicaid benefit there's another state rate here is states can wave. This is attorney for it again against deep state can waive the federal essential health benefits required to write we've heard this on my tricks to help us understand what does that mean. So under obamacare there's of range of about ten acts so called essential health benefits. Saying that this is the bare minimum what you have to offer that includes things like prenatal care includes things like drug counseling there includes things like mental health. Covers those are not things that you necessarily know you're gonna need when you're going out buying an insurance plan that's out of the point of insurance. But what there what rule at the intent of congress here is to try to strip down some of the plants to allow states to say. I want people to be able to have skating options options that don't include a whole suite of services. If you don't want to be covered for mental health or drug addiction or or prenatal and don't have to buy into it. So that cuts cuts in both directions and it means that they'll be a lot of people out there with insurance that doesn't mean nearly as much. Here's the complete list the ten things listed as essential health benefits mental health substance abuse services prescription drugs. Prevented if care maternity care emergency services lab services. They do not have to be included in every planet concerned there's of course if you don't have to included a finisher you probably won't because it just cost you more right. Well it flips in both directions on the because on one level yet to be competitive with the marketplace so you're not an offer something that is in competitive however to be competitive in the market place when those costs now. So you can imagine it particularly in some states that opt out of of some of those benefits. That there will be very very lean coverage plants it. Wool on debt biting people some people will make off a lot better if they're paying less every month and health insurance. Some people make up a lot worse because they will find out quite suddenly they're not cover for reception drugs than a cover for drug abuse.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/dr-ben-carson-public-housing-comfortable-47208695
L why hasn't way with words quite like our new housing secretary doctor banned cars let. You recently tour in the housing facilities for the poor and Ohio. And send that you can't make these places too comfortable country and people wanna say I had to stay he beyond take it and me. This feels then. Why did kind of blaming poor peoples are. Opinion poll are. You think more people want to stay in the housing because. I gotta tell you all active think was have to get the hell added. And Lyndon fairly good housing that is still they have been out of that up in the middle of Manhattan you know everybody is aspiration of people are trying to get out why you. Why you make an at hardest. You know what interests me about this particular type of policy it's like what they're saying is it give you help poor people will develop dependency. That's what that they sadly citing language they used it was for people who are on welfare forgetting that nobody wants to stay on welfare nobody ever wanted to stay out while the idea is that. You give something and people become dependent on nobody but but it does not ever apply to rich people such as Donald Trott who got I believe fourteen million dollars from his father. You don't haven't said yeah. How dependent is loves you I'm not because because it not let it. It actually isn't because he got up from his father the point that they are always trying to make that is sunny everybody. Barely been awful you Aaron Daniel hi Diana autumn view and this is not live that they've perpetuated. With the young women who were getting pregnant when they were getting Britain. People on welfare you know what people do want to work they blacks went but perhaps if you stop slashing jobs are ways to get jobs may be that would help what may be if you didn't make people feel like. They weren't. They had put anything in in the past because people who work you know you put money and so the government you put money. Pay your taxes and that's what it therefore. They there are peak. All that are gonna always be in public housing in some of these groups of people like mentally ill who we close state run mental hospitals no way to talk about me. I. Don't have a place to go we have short term facilities we don't have long term there are people here that you're taking for granted when he makes statements like that and Nate always depend on east east quickly. And so what was upsetting to me is that he is supposed to be you know the Hud secretaries of he's someone that is supposed to have done his research. And what he should know in your day aiming at least I'm assuming that it and what he should know is that 31% of the people that are in public housing are our elderly. That rely on that another significant. I think there's a significant where our children. And so you're back when he's at an aerobatics so what he's saying is that the elderly shouldn't be put in places that are too comfortable won't. I was so sick isn't up to you mean I had sex act and I would we love. I think you have to explain though because Republicans oftentimes jump and and they separate them mentally ill they separate the elderly as you don't know we're talking about able bodied people and I. You know I'm here informant are also. Able bodied people who've been dealt a rough lot life and they too. We need public assistance now if Republicans were Smart why not come in and say acknowledged that there are people that need is let's pare it we if opportunity programs to get those people out there where they have internship opportunities but they have job I didn't feel my administration did. That's likely you know what that yeah. And not. It's something I can support because that's that's giving people a sense of self and saying you know what I can do this and turning the knob into that workforce when they're gonna have an opportunity no public talk. About basically is investing in people and that Republican Party right now is not interested in investing in people. That they seem to wanna start the pork and may start the blues and everybody. Else sounds well not all Republican not all conservatives want to meddle what Republicans can't quite understand about the policies of the Republican Party at the moment in. Let me be specific a tank. And I think that that's what they are. Hats at the very top. And no concern for people at the bottom and others aren't nice people out well I think there's a disconnect I think that many Republicans are interested in job growth and aren't interested in keeping those taxes low at the top because they want those job creators also. Flood that money back into the economy and hire people. And all of our and that's fun aren't they holding you why I went yeah you can have bad argument. And you can also say. OK but when missing the whole bunch of people over here as well who need assistance and also need that incentive and need help to get out there and become members of this society I think. Where you can really hard didn't Wear these warm hearted Republican. I don't want my man. Pops yeah. They say they are probably well detect and I'm it is yeah Angel and it polarity reform party conservatives have what do what I've got bit while some somehow. I've woken up my cup none of them. Well. Listen not enough of anybody who spoke to help let's say and Jack. Every action at one of the reasons that nobody says anything out on the other side is if they actually solve this problem they have nothing to bitch about. Yeah I. And they said well this topic is an and is on both sides of the I'll. And then they dread apt Senator Mc Cain he's the only watt who speaks against the parliament -- it is I would say those who call women and those so I don't hear from placing an outstanding Harvard I don't I what they are there and so they are got to do with support the ones that actually are doing something and forced the people who we know who should be supporting upset. And we got your back pocket because your right foot that doesn't exist act that's. I'm run out of Washington dammit let's just don't think I have tried to change that the HCA. By making it even. Posh Shaq for poor people. That was the freedom clubs so called freedom I'm talking about freedom Toby into I can't be all this topic tomorrow actually. As the bill to repeal and replace Obama again. That is up for a vote in just a couple of house for a half and what I think. We're going to say it's folks as warm warm you. You to watch and hold your local represented is responsible. For whatever ballot they cast today because you know what. Everybody is not as well off as we are everybody doesn't live. In a city where we have a lot of protections let the places that they're not protected. Where they should be protected we have to make sure that they're getting what they're supposed to get regardless of what they found they borrowed. Kim going to rock has spent all. You now a gentleman said yes let you know well. There are plenty of places of emergency rooms will take children they would talk about Jimmy Campbell's name out. And visible emergency rooms have to take children and I thought to myself but that was then this and that's why we word putting together with something that would allow people not have to take up all that time and the Americans were asked her pregnant iiroc you know me at that time winner it is that went right so we need to keep an eye on this because this really does affect every box it really doesn't Ukraine not needed today. What you may needed in a year from now if you don't have to do Bobby edits them.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/fbis-comey-fbis-impact-election-makes-mildly-nauseous-47208607
So FBI director James Comey was in the hot seat yesterday at the annual oversight hearing and he told the senate judiciary committee that he felt -- I'm sorry. I usually turn it off. " Call me maybe"? I'm sorry. A lot of -- And it said no caller I. D. You can't pick that up. The new guy is calling you. He is in town. A lot of us did -- my god. Sorry. That's all right. So Comey was in the hot seat and they were asking him questions, and he said he was really upset about the way things went down with the election. It made him queasy. Take a look at the clip. Look, this is terrible. It makes me mildly nauseous to think we might have had an impact on the election. It wouldn't have changed the decision. Concealing in my view would have been catastrophic. Not just to the FBI, but well beyond, and honestly, between really bad and catastrophic, I said to my team, we have to walk into the world of really bad. So he says he had no other option but to go public about re-opening Hillary's investigation. He led us into the trump administration. That is what became catastrophic. Yeah. And I think when he says he had no other choice, that's not true. D. O. J. Says you're not supposed to come forward with that, and especially during an election. He interfered in the election and talk about Hillary's e-mails and said nothing about the fact that Donald Trump and his workers were under investigation for ties to Russia I think is a significant problem. He said my options were to speak or conceal. How about to speak or not to speak. The fact he uses the term concealing, makes him think it's a coverup. Donald Trump was under investigation. I also think the idea -- sorry. I lost my thought. I'll jump back in. There's this notion that this report -- the whole story makes no sense to me. If I'm being honest. Yeah. There is this report he wanted to wrii where this op-ed, and president Obama didn't want him to do it -- this is reported allegedly. Obama didn't want to be viewed in it X , and he didn't want anybody to say Barack Obama tried to squash trump, and why is the director of the FBI writing an op-ed? It doesn't make any sense. What's frustrating to me is when you look at this story, I'm disappointed on all fronts. I'm disappointed in Comey because he has been inconsistent, and it's clear, and he doesn't look sincere when he is talking in this clip. I'm disappointed in huma abedin, and Hillary Clinton because they are capable women -- I'm not sure she did. I know they say it, and then wikipedia says it, and whatever these e-mails. Come on. Wikileaks. Don't let wikipedia go down, okay? Sorry, wikipedia. Apparently, she sent them to Anthony Weiner. Who? Huma. To her husband, Weiner, because she wanted them printed. She doesn't have a printer? That's bugging me. I know. The real issue here is why are we talking about somebody who didn't win the election? Let's talk about Russia. I think that's a fair point, but I think we're talking about her because we're talking about Comey, and he is there with the e-mail scandal. He was there to talk about the Russian issues they are having now. She didn't win the election, and I have to say, I'm getting tired of hearing her name bantered around and tired of hearing about what Obama did and didn't do. He is not the president. She didn't win the election. You're the president. Where's your stuff? I want to know where your stuff is. My thought came. After the investigation. What I was about to say, the big issue I had with Comey is he said he promised he would speak up if the case were to have anything else com E out, but where that personal order or promise end, and professional protocol begin? If he would have said, it's protocol to ever speak up, and we don't know what's in the e-mai e-mails, no one would have faulted him for that it was protocol. The protocol is clear. He made it clear he was not a fan of Hillary Clinton. If you are going to be -- He got what he deserved. Shut up. Don't say anything. Don't say anything.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/moment-house-passed-obamacare-replacement-bill-47208518
House Republicans have passed their ambitious plan to repeal and replace Obamacare after several fits and starts, sending the measure to the Senate, where it is expected to be significantly revised. On the house representatives where they have now 217. Votes enough to pass that bill only twenty no votes on the Republican side. A big win for speaker of the house Paul Ryan and president trump John. And incredibly close vote put a big win for the president and this is one Georgia where it look like he had lost. He was about to do this in March didn't have the votes they pulled the bill they tried again to do it last week pulled the bill before they got to a vote. This was the president bringing a back back a bill that many including many in his own party Republican leadership on Capitol Hill. Had essentially thought was dead and gone his first major. Legislative victory but George. This is also something that he will have to defend in the years that come very interest thing. Speech on the floor right before the vote came from Nancy close you said Republicans will have the provisions of this bill. Tattooed to the. Air and never had a very we'll have to defend that we haven't right there the gavel comes down. The bill has passed 217 yes votes. Right therefore the repeal of Obama.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trouble-house-health-care-bill-senate-republicans/story?id=47228994
While House Republicans have already celebrated their passage of a bill that would replace the Affordable Care Act, several of their GOP colleagues at the other end of the Capitol have already said the House version of the legislation is untenable. “ At this point, there seem to be more questions than answers about its consequences,” Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, said in a statement of the House bill. Collins and a group of other Senate Republicans had already expressed concerns about the original version of the House bill, initially floated in March. But the new version of the House bill, which contains added provisions that would ease requirements that insurers cover pre-existing conditions, does little to assuage the senators’ initial concerns. Senate leaders said Thursday that while they will review the House bill, they will also write their own version of a health care overhaul. But the differences among individual senators, and the fact that there can be no more than two Republican defections for the bill to pass – underscores the challenge the Senate has ahead of it in coming up with a bill that satisfies enough holdouts. Conservative GOP Sens. Rand Paul of Kentucky, Mike Lee of Utah and Ted Cruz of Texas all tweeted after the original House bill’s introduction that they would oppose anything short of a full repeal of Obamacare. They also said the House bill's tax credit structure to help people pay for coverage amounted to a new entitlement, too similar to the subsidies available under Obamacare. The latest House bill would provide tax credits between $2,000 and $14,000 a year for individuals who don’t get insurance coverage from an employer or the governments. The tax credits would be based on age instead of income, increasing as a person gets older. After the House vote Thursday, Paul said he opposed the House bill because it guarantees “the fundamental promise of Obamacare kept.” Cruz told ABC News earlier in the week that he still has “a number of concerns” about the bill, “and I think many senators do.” In addition to such conservative members, four GOP senators from states that expanded Medicaid under Obamacare expressed concerns about the lack of protections for expansion beneficiaries: Sens. Cory Gardner of Colorado, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Rob Portman of Ohio and Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia. The House bill would raise the bar for Medicaid eligibility among lower-income Americans and cap payments to states for the program through block grants, reducing federal spending on the program by $880 billion over the next decade. It would also allow states to impose work requirements for “able-bodied” adults. “ I continue to have concerns that this bill does not do enough to protect Ohio’s Medicaid expansion population, especially those who are receiving treatment for heroin and prescription drug abuse,” Portman said in a statement after the House vote. Finally, Collins had originally expressed concerns about the bill’s revocation of federal funding for Planned Parenthood, barring Medicaid recipients from getting any reimbursements for visits to the family clinic, which many Republicans oppose because the organization provides abortions among its services. She also raised concerns about the new additions to the House bill, asking in a statement, “ Exactly how does the bill treat individuals with pre-existing conditions? There should be no barrier to coverage for pre-existing conditions as long as people enroll and pay their premiums.” Collins may be one of the only Senate Republicans who wants to keep Planned Parenthood funding, but she is one of only 52 Senate Republicans. If she can't come around to the eventual Senate version of the bill, only one other Republican can vote against the bill and have it still pass ( Vice President Pence would come in to cast a tie-breaking vote for Republicans). Sen. Bill Cassidy, R- La., predicted a long road ahead for his chamber as they work to corral the disparate groups of skeptics and come up with a bill that at least most of them can support. “ We need 50 votes and there are 52 of us,” he said. “ So it will be a collaborative process where everyone's concerns are heard.”
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/female-white-house-chief-usher-longer-employed-official/story?id=47230778
Angella Reid, the first female chief usher to work at the White House, is "no longer employed by the White House," an administration official has told ABC News. Reid was fired, according to sources. One administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, cited “issues with the staff.” Others described tension between Reid, her staff and members of the administration. The abrupt departure, first reported by the Washington Post, is unusual for a White House usher -- a position which does not typically change with administrations. Only nine people have held the job in the last 132 years. “ We are very grateful for her service," the official said. White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters today that Reid "left on very good terms and [we] wish her the very best." " It's not uncommon that you might have a transition of staff when a new administration comes in. And it's simply nothing more than that," she added. The chief usher oversees the White House building and grounds, managing staff members like florists and butlers, and working on other events and administrative tasks while working closely with the president and first family. It's considered to be one of the most important behind-the-scenes roles. Reid, a former general manager of The Ritz- Carlton in Pentagon City in Virginia, was hired by President Barack Obama in 2011. She was the second African- American to serve in the position and only the ninth chief usher since 1885.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/democrats-chant-hey-hey-hey-goodbye-gop-health/story?id=47224992
Play The Associated Press WATCH Democrats chant 'hey hey hey, goodbye' at GOP after health care bill passes As it became clear that the American Health Care Act would pass the House of Representatives on Thursday, many Congressional Democrats started chanting the well-known song, " Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye." After the Republicans secured the 216th vote, enough to secure the passage of the legislation that received no Democratic votes, many in the chamber broke out singing the famous taunt, an apparent reference to their belief that Republicans will suffer politically as a result of the vote. After the vote, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- Calif., said the GOP would “pay the price” for the bill’s passage during the 2018 elections. Senate Minority leader Chuck Schumer, D- N. Y., said "this bill is going nowhere fast in the United States Senate." As the final gavel came down announcing the bill’s passage by a 217-213 vote, the House Democrats belted out for a second time the famous refrain: " Nah Nah Nah Nah, hey hey hey, Goodbye." For years, the chant has been a staple at athletic events to taunt the opposing team. Wednesday’s jeer hearkened back to a similar political moment in 1993 after House Democrats secured the votes to pass then- President Clinton’s annual budget. After Democratic Rep. Marjorie Margolies- Mezvinsky voted to support that measure despite her home constituency skeptical of the measure, she was met with Republican heckles of “goodbye, Marjorie.” “ Today, we made good on our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare,” said Congressman Darrell Issa, R- Calif. “ Let's stop pretending Obamacare is going to fix itself or that somehow, someday, it’s going to get better. Today's vote gives a voice to the victims of Obamacare, the millions of Americans who are paying higher premiums, receiving less coverage and for whom the status quo offered no end in sight."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/steps-gop-health-plan-senate-plans-write-bill/story?id=47213587
Play REUTERSWATCH GOP healthcare passes in the house scoring President Trump his first legislative victory While House Republicans celebrated the passage of their Obamacare replacement bill by busing over to the White House’s Rose Garden for a celebratory press conference, their Senate counterparts were already working to manage expectations, declaring they are going to write an entirely separate bill. “ At the end of the day, I think it'll be a Senate bill and then those two bills at some point will have to come together and we'll get started on that Senate bill immediately,” Sen. Roy Blunt, R- Missouri, a member of Senate leadership, told ABC News. Sen. Lamar Alexander, R- Tennessee, the chairman of the Senate Help, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee ( HELP), one of the panels that would help craft the final Senate bill, concurred, taking to the Senate floor right after the House vote to say, “ Now we'll go to work on a Senate bill.” The bill passed the House with a narrow 217-213 vote. At the press conference, President Donald Trump congratulated and thanked House Speaker Paul Ryan and praised House Republicans for coming together. " What we have is something very, very incredibly well-crafted," Trump said of the bill. He added that he feels "confident" the bill will pass through the Senate and said it "will get even better." Before the Senate gets to work on its legislation, the Senate Budget Committee must first review the House bill and determine which portions of that legislation are in compliance with the rules of reconciliation, under which the bill only requires 51 Senate votes for approval. Reconciliation requires all measures be strictly related to the budget. The House is not beholden to those rules, so its bill was not written with reconciliation in mind. Only after the Budget Committee determines which parts of the House bill are in compliance with reconciliation, thus abiding by the so-called Byrd Rule, can the HELP and Finance Committees get to work on their own version of the bill. It's not yet clear whether or not the bill will go through the standard committee markup process, moving through the panels of jurisdiction like HELP and Finance, or via some other channel. Committee Democrats have indicated they think Mc Connell could move a bill directly to the Senate floor. In order for the Budget Committee to make its determinations, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office needs to provide its “score” of the House bill, which estimates the bill’s impact on the federal budget. “ The Senate can't really get to work to figure out what might fit the reconciliation process until after the CBO score is secured. It will take some time for each policy the Senate wants to pursue to be evaluated against all the rules of reconciliation,” a Budget Committee aide told ABC News. The House voted to pass the bill without a CBO score, though an earlier analysis of the bill from the CBO -- before several amendments were added -- projected that 24 million additional Americans would be uninsured by 2026 and that it would reduce the deficit by $337 billion, compared to the Affordable Cart Act. The Senate process of writing its own, reconciliation-compliant bill will take time, but in addition, senators will also have to contend with the vast ideological differences that have become apparent in the course of the health care debate. When the House leadership released its original health care proposal in March, at least eight Senate Republicans said they had fundamental problems with the bill. The conservative Sens. Rand Paul, R- Kentucky, Mike Lee, R- Utah, and Ted Cruz, R- Texas, all tweeted that they would oppose anything short of a full repeal of Obamacare. They also said the House bill's tax credit structure to help people pay for coverage amounted to a new entitlement. Four other senators -- Cory Gardner, R- Colorado, Lisa Murkowski, R- Alaska, Rob Portman, R- Ohio, and Shelley Moore Capito, R- West Virginia — from states that expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, were concerned about the proposal's lack of protections for expansion beneficiaries. Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, who opposed previous GOP efforts to strip federal funding from Planned Parenthood, also expressed opposition to the previous version of the House bill. No Senate Democrats are expected to cross the aisle and vote for a replacement health care bill, meaning Senate Republicans could afford to lose only two votes from their 52 members and still pass the bill. Vice President Mike Pence would cast a vote in the event of a tie. After the Senate passes its own bill, the two chambers would likely have to reconcile differences in what's known as a conference committee. It's not clear whether House Republicans who voted for their version of the bill would sign on to changes requested by senators and vice versa -- a perennial concern for any legislation that goes through conference committee. Cruz, who rejected the first House bill, suggested ahead of the House's vote that he would be open to using the new version as a springboard in the Senate but added, " I have a number of concerns, and I think many senators do." " If the bill does pass the House, then it will come to the Senate, and it will be incumbent on us to continue to work to make it better," he added. A spokesperson for Portman said the senator wants to see a better transition process for changing the way Medicaid is financed and more help for those receiving treatment for opioid addiction. Capito, who opposed the House bill's Medicaid provisions, said through a spokesperson that the new version does not address her concerns. " She will work to improve the bill if it comes over to the Senate," her spokesperson said. In any event, the process is not likely to be swift. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas, the chamber's second-highest-ranking Republican, told reporters Wednesday he thought the process of reconciling the two bills could take weeks.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/20-republicans-voted-health-care-bill/story?id=47209101
Play Bill Clark/ CQ Roll Call/ Getty Images WATCH GOP healthcare passes in the house scoring President Trump his first legislative victory Twenty House Republicans broke with their party to vote against the American Health Care Act's passage Thursday, an effort that failed to produce enough opposition to block the bill, which was approved by a 217-213 margin. Of the several Republicans who were publicly undecided in advance of the vote, at least three -- Reps. Will Hurd, Dave Joyce, and Mike Turner -- voted against the measure. Other Republicans who did not reveal their stance but voted in favor of the act included Reps. Carlos Curbelo ( FL-26), Justin Amash ( MI-3), Darrell Issa ( CA-49), Mario Diaz- Balart ( FL-25), Ed Royce ( CA-39), Elise Stefanik ( NY-21) and Adam Kinzinger ( IL-16), a group that could find their votes used against them should they run for reelection in 2018. One notable flip for Republicans was Rep. Jeff Denham ( CA-10), who opposed the bill as late as 11 a.m. on Wednesday, according to his spokesperson, who said then that he was "still currently a 'no.'" Denham ultimately cosponsored the amendment proposed by Rep. Fred Upton ( MI-6), which granted $8 billion for use by states to run high-risk pools for people with pre-existing conditions, and voted in favor of the bill Thursday.
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/anger-mounting-house-health-care-bill-47251633
Town halls were held across the country with many people voicing concerns about pre-existing conditions. We begin tonight with the fight and fury mounting over the house health care bill. Town halls like this one raising the volume over voters' concerns about pre-existing conditions. President trump and house speaker Paul Ryan celebrating the legislation's first victory lap this past week before lawmakers headed home. Now facing that backlash from health care advocates and Democrats using the controversial bill as a rallying cry. ABC's David Wright starting us off tonight with the president in bedminster, New Jersey. Reporter: Tonight, blowback for Republican congress members who voted to repeal and replace Obamacare. In upstate New York, representative Tom reed got an earful at his town hall meetings. Many of their concerns focused on so-called pre-existing conditions. This man says he recently donated a kidney. Now that I have a pre-existing condition my cost of health care could go up significantly and also I could possibly be denied health care. Reporter: The Republican bill would roll back the affordable care act's protections for patients with pre-existing conditions. That's one out of every four Americans. Health insurers would still have to cover them. But the bill does include a mechanism allowing insurance companies to raise rates on those patients, possibly even making their insurance unaffordable. In Idaho, congressman Raul Labrador shot back at a constituent who told him people will die without access to health care. That line is so indefensible. Nobody dies because they don't have access to health care. It will be great health care and your premiums will come down and your deductibles will come down. So you will have better health care at a lower cost. And now I'm calling on the senate to take action. Reporter: Some house members now admit they voted for the bill without reading the fine print. I don't think any individual has read the whole bill. That's why we have staff. Reporter: New Jersey congressman Rodney frelinghuyser switched his vote from a no to a yes at the last minute after promising his constituents he'd look out for them. I support looking after pre-existing conditions. He was holding my letter, yes, when he said that. Reporter: She's a survivor of stage 4 breast cancer. Don't take away the protections we already have. My representative voted to take away those protections when he promised not to. David Wright joins us live bedminster, New Jersey, where the president spending the weekend at the golf club. The president telling the senate to pass this health care bill, but he's also taking some shots at the media Reporter: He's not happy with the coverage, tweeting, wow, the fake media did everything in its bill to make the Republican health care victory look as bad as possible, far better than Reed held three forums Saturday where he heard from some constituents about the House health care bill.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/house-members-face-backlash-home-districts-health-care-47245003
President trump waking up at his golf club in bedminster, new Jersey, bask in the glow of his party's victory on health care. The pushbacks have begun. Members of congress return to hair home districts where we're expecting a bunch of town hall meetings starting today. We've seen protest, voters angry in particular because of threats to coverage for people with pre-existing conditions that concern all over Twitter where the #iamapre-existing condition. The bill to repeal even replace Obamacare has a long road ahead of it. Republicans promising to do their own thing signaling they may start from scratch. Matt dowd is standing by with analysis. We'll start with ABC's David Wright with the president in bedminster. Good morning to you, David. Reporter: Good morning, Paula. Good morning, Dan. You know, Republicans are celebrating victory still over the passage of this house health care bill, but a lot of them are returning home to their districts to find the storm clouds gathering. More than a few constituents have more than a few questions and concerns. Backlash. Reporter: Even before the senate has taken up the bill the house just passed. Angry constituents are giving Republican lawmakers an earful. Kansas City, demonstrators lay right outside congressman Kevin Yoder's office, a mock cemetery. Here in New Jersey, where friehli friehlingh friehli friehlinghousen changed had is vote. President trump pushes back in his weekly address. It will be great health care and your premiums will come down and your dedushthables will come down so you'll have better health care at a lower cost. And now I'm calling on the senate to take action. Reporter: Trump finds himself defending not just the GOP's health bill but also his praise for Australia's single payer health system. You have better health care than we do. Thank you, Mr. President, we'll quote you on the floor of the senate. Reporter: Trump tweeted of course the Australians have better health care than we do. Everybody does. Obamacare is dead but our health care will soon be great. Trump is taking the win. Repealing and replacing Obamacare will be a big, big win for the American people. Reporter: Now, the health care debate is far from over. The senate expected to make some big changes if it even passes the health care bill at all. The president meanwhile, at his country club here in bedminster and he's talking about how he's saving the taxpayers money by not staying in New York City. Dan, Paula. Yeah, that seems to be a hot topic. We'll get to that in a second. David, thank you for your reports from bedminster. Our political ringer, ABC news consultant Matt dowd. I call him Matty ice because you're clutch on and off the field. There's no telling why you call me that. Just embrace it. A window into the mind of Paula Faris. There you go. Don't try to go there, you G guys. Dangerous territory. The senate is expected to rip this bill up. How do you see this all going down. They're going to chew through it faster than the horses at the Kentucky derby in the stables in grain and hay. I expect this to take a long period of time. I think the senate isn't even going to look at their bill first. I think they'll go off on their own and the two will be substantially different then a conference committee so no telling when that is going to get settled. I think the senate unlike the house is going to take their time on this. Democrats crowing about the political price they believe the Republicans will pay for this bill. Are they right about that? I think they're wrong about crowing because it's always bad to crow in the middle of the first quarter when you actually don't even have an election and the things you don't even face and I think the Democrats were already positioned well in this midterm election to pick up a lot of seats especially in the house and I think this bill is going to help them. Every time this kind of thing has been passed the party that passed ittiv suffers in the election. Let's talk about a victory for trump. The president is touting the latest job numbers, the lowest unemployment in over a decade. Wage growth. How good is this? It's good news for the country and good news for him and the administration though he has to string together a lot of these in a row for people to feel like they have real impact. Keep in mind the unmro I is low and it's lower than it's been in ten years as you say. The people still feel like the country is off on the wrong track. Two-thirds of the country are still not satisfied where it is. And candidate president trump raised numbers Abo-- or questions about the numbers anyway. Lowering his handicap. Going to his own properties and Democrats have been hitting him about that as he wakes up in bedminster and say she's repeated trips to his own homes are costing taxpayers money and also promoting his properties. Is this a resonance issue. I'm offended when people won't stay in my house. I don't know why he won't Tay in the American people's house. It's kind of a nice place to be. These things only matter if the country begins to turn badly. If the economy falls and there is an international problem that the country blames him for, the people will use that to fault him. If the economy continues to grow and seems to handle things internationally well, then I don't think it fundamentally will matter but it will turn on whether or not the country is doing well. If it's not as I say they'll begin to point out things like that. They did it for president bush. The country didn't care whether or not he went to Crawford all the time. They cared as soon as Iraq turned against him and the economy turned baaed. Good point. Matty ice, thank you very much. Appreciate it. It is going to stick. It's going to stick, sorry, The GOP health care bill has cleared the House but it still faces an uphill battle before it becomes law, Jon Karl reports.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/white-house-australias-health-care-system-work-united-47236078
Deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Friday that Trump was "simply being complimentary of the prime minister, and I don't think it was much more than that." I think he was simply act being complimentary of the prime minister and I don't think it was that much more than that. I'm saying that the president was complemented a foreign leader. And operations of their health care system that it didn't mean anything more than. Eagerly he doesn't believe they're a better health care system. I think he believes that they had a good health care system for Australia again that's one of the biggest things that is wrong with obamacare it's tried to be a one size fits all. Next opposite of what the plan is that we're putting in place right now allows for state flexibility what works and Australia. May not work in the United States so I think again he was complementing. The prime minister and we're focused on putting health care plan. In place that works here.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/gop-health-care-bill-moves-senate-47226390
ABC News' political analyst Matthew Dowd looks at the political impact of the bill's passage and the next steps on health care in the Senate. Let's talk about the political fallout with Matthew dowd and he's joined us from Miami. A real split screen yesterday after that vote. You had president trump and the Republicans there, they were celebrating at the white house. You had the Democrats can cheering on the floor of the house after losing the votes saying Republicans are going to pay. How do you assess the political fallout? Well, I actually thought it was somewhat unseemly on both sides in the middle of this. You all mentioned the Kentucky derby. It seems both sides are in the first turn and they're already drinking mint juleps thinking it's the end of this thing. We have much more to go on the political side of this. I think right now this is a huge negative for the Republican party. But it's a year and a half from election day. We don't know what's going to happen in the senate in this but as of today, it's an anchor for Republican candidates. Yeah, because this bill passed through the house yesterday. As we said with one vote to spare even though right now it polls in a very negative way. A lot of Republicans under fire for this. You had even some house Republicans yesterday saying, yeah, we voted for this bill. We don't think it's very good. George, the amazing thing is is that Donald Trump and the GOP have managed to do something president Obama couldn't do which is make Obamacare popular. Obamacare today is popular by a majority of the vote today. When you look at the process of this, the fact they didn't present the bill early enough for people to read, they didn't do a cbo score and rushed it through. All of the process as well Tom talked about the substance is going to cause a huge political problem. We don't know what the national is going to be but it is an anchor regardless of what the senate does Democrats will hang it on Republicans in the fall of 2018. What's the best case for president trump at this point right now? Does he need to sign this into law or does he need that early victory in the house to give him momentum? Well, I think he needed an early victory to demonstrate he can actually get something passed because he hasn't done anything major in the house of representatives or the senate yet. He needed that. But in the end that's going to fade away. I actually think he needs to put together a series of victories on a lot of different things and maybe they think it will break through the dam and can do a lot of other things they want to do but right now I don't think this is going to benefit Donald Trump much in the long term. More on " This week." See you then. Dangerous storms hitting the The GOP health care bill has cleared the House but it still faces an uphill battle before it becomes law, Jon Karl reports.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/texas-governor-signs-law-banning-sanctuary-cities-47265969
Republican Texas Gov. Greg Abbott signed a law Sunday that would allow police to ask about a person's immigration status and threatens sheriffs with jail if they don't cooperate with federal authorities. This law. Cracked down on these. Here. It is clear she would not detained no room for animals. Few. Those policies. Are Sanctuary City crossings. In and won't be tolerated. In Texas. Elected officials and law enforcement agencies. Do it and pick and choose which laws that Lula. There are consequences. Did it consequences. To not enforcing the rule. Citizens expect walls and officers to that the law. And citizens deserve more records. To face legal costs. Texans expect us to keep him today. And that is exactly what your wounded did. Me. This. All. Texas. His now man. Century cities in mom's arms. " The View" co-hosts discuss the best ways to enforce legal immigration in so-called sanctuary cities. ABC News' Amna Nawaz, Rebecca Jarvis and Rick Klein discuss AG Sessions' statement on sanctuary cities losing federal funding if they continue to ignore federal law.
http://abcnews.go.com/ThisWeek/video/president-trump-touts-house-health-care-victory-bill-47258674
President Trump touts House health care victory, but bill faces uphill battle in Senate Video - ABC News George Stephanopoulos reports the latest about the narrowly-passed Republican health care bill that could replace Obamacare. Back in March the GOP effort to repeal obamacare seem to end with more whimper than bang. After seven years of debate dozens of symbolic votes Republicans could rally behind a bill that might actually become law. Obama care for all its problems appeared too popular to kill the benefits to meaningful to too many. Kind of an iron -- politics once the government provides a benefit it's almost impossible to take it back we've seen was Social Security was seen with Medicare. Now that law is being put to its biggest test in generations. Go to the Rose Garden this week. President trump and speaker Ryan savoring the victory. Backed by dozens of cheering house members who cobbled together repeal compromise to pass of the single vote to spare. And this is a great plan I actually think it will get even better and this is make no mistake this is a repeal. And a replace. Of obamacare make no mistake about it and. But here's the surprising thing. Back in the house Democrats appear just as pleased leader Nancy Pelosi close the debate by warning Republicans they were making the mistake of their careers. You had every provision of this bill tattooed. On your far you'll glow in the dark on this line. Well when they die. And at the final votes were counted her troops broke out in song. All of this sparked a rare bipartisan scolding from New York Post children. They're all children. Point taken the stakes in this debate too high for silly games but both sides may also be right. The GOP need a win now needed to show their base they could deliver on a big promise. But if history holds they could pay a big price later Democrats lost control of congress in 2010. After passing obamacare in 2009. And in town meetings this weekend members of congress are facing tough questions and raw feelings. KS. Son you won't even know. Resolved. In a dependable no. Because there yeah. It. Adam has fueled by a simple fact what happens to health care matters to everyone everyone has a stake everyone has a story. Everyone wants the health care they needed a price they can afford. Really does official Washington touched so many lives so directly and so deeply. This morning three big questions on the table how would repeal legislation passed by the house affect all of us and America's health care system overall. Can legislation looks anything like that bill actually passed the senate. Leaders there are already saying they're gonna start from scratch. And what will be the political fallout when this debate ends which party will own health care at what cost. House votes to repeal and replace Obamacare, President Trump invites triumphant republicans to victory celebration in the Rose Garden.
http://abcnews.go.com/ThisWeek/video/week-fast-forward-572017-47258211
He faced with the house bill but would become law. That no Americans will be worse off than they are today. We have multiple layers of protections. For people with preexisting condition let's talk let's hurry you can have a peace of mind so did you get a decent on to get affordable coverage no worry about a mid term wave what do you tell your members. I'm not this is us keeping our word. But most importantly it's just trying to fix a real problem. That's bill before you today would you be yes that house bill is not going to come before us the senate is starting from scratch. We're going to draft her own bill. And I'm convinced that we're going to take the time to do it right. Can't campaign. Chairman says we need to keep our base excited and not your election. Keeping your base excited at the expense of people losing their health care I don't think works with politically. This president trumps sign health care bill this year no yes no yes now. In the note to.
http://abcnews.go.com/ThisWeek/video/sen-susan-collins-senate-starting-scratch-health-care-47255675
Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, tells " This Week" the Senate will take a "fresh, new approach" to health care. President trump is up and tweeting this morning. Just out a few moments ago, he said Republican senators will not let the American people down. Obamacare premiums and deductibles are way up. It was a lie. And it is dead. We're joined by senator Susan Collins from Maine. Thank you for joining thus morning. We just heard the president right there. You heard speaker Ryan as well. But you had serious concerns. You were against the original house bill. Is it fair to say you're against the amended one? I have a lot of concerns. It's difficult to assess the new house bill. Because we still don't have a cbo analysis of the impact of coverage and costs. And those are key questions. Those are the key questions. I mean, we heard Dr. Gawande weigh in on that, as well. You heard speaker Ryan right there. He says he's going to take care of those older, rural Americans who don't have the tax credits and will lose subsidies. He cited your state of Maine several times. Well, first of all, one of the problems with the house bill is that the tax credits are not adjusted for income or geographic region. That really hurts a state like Maine, where we have an older population living in largely more expensive, ral areas, as far as health care is concerned. I have heard a lot of talk about the Maine high-risk pool. Indeed, it was a success in Maine for the 18 months or so in which it operated before the passage of the ACA. And it can be part of the solution. But in Maine, we had definite revenue streams supporting the high-risk pool. And that is why it worked. In the house bill, it's really up to the states to come up with whatever option they wish. So that could work. It could be part of a solution. But the devil really is in the details. So do you agree with the speaker Ryan and president trump saying people with pree existing conditions are going have the same coverage right now, even better, speaker Ryan said, in some cases than under Obamacare? Think that's unlikely. So much discretion is given to the states without any guardrails. The different between that approach and the approach in the bill that senator Cassidy and I have introduced is we keep the ACA safeguards, the consumer protections, for people with pre-existing conditions. It's true that under the house bill, state that gets a waiver would still have to provide coverage to people with pre-existing conditions. But that coverage might well be unaffordable. And if the coverage is unaffordable, that doesn't do any good for a child who has juvenile diabetes and is going have that her entire life and once she's no longer on her parents' policy, sthat going to create problems in some states. If the house bill were before you today, would you be a yes? Well, first of all, the house bill is not going to come before us. The senate is starting from scratch. We're going to draft our own bill. I'm convinced that we're going to take the time to do it right. Speaker Ryan today said that he hoped that the senate would improve the house bill. I think we will do so and that we will come up with a whole new fresh approach that solves the legitimate flaws that do economiexist with the ACA. Where with have seen, in some markets, insurance is fleeing. It will keep some of the benefits of the ACA. My goal is to actually expand coverage for those 28 million Americans who still lack coverage today despite the ACA. A lot of people are struck by the working group put together in the senate to deal with health care. I'll put the picture up right there. 13 men. Not a single woman. Cecile Richards said when women are not at the table, we're on the menu. Patty Murray said, it's important to have women at the table. Why aren't you in the working group? Well, the leaders obviously chose the people they want. I'm working hard with senator Cassidy with our co-sponsors. Shelly Moore Capito, Johnny Isaacson. We're reaching out to moderate Democrats. I would like to see us put together a bipartisan group to solve this problem. Democrats who acknowledge that there are problems with the current law. That it is not working well. In several states. And Republicans who also want to make sure that we're not reducing coverage and we're giving flexibility. There's an issue that no one is talking about in Washington that is so critical. And that is if we're going reduce the cost of health insurance, we have to take steps to reduce the costs of health care. And no one's talking about that. Senator Cass isidy and I have in our bill a transparency sex so you would actually know what you're paying. That would help consumers make better choice sflps can you support a final bill that denies medicaid funding to planned parenthood? That is an important issue to me because I don't think that low-income women should be denied their choice of health care providers. It's not the only issue in this huge bill. I think it's not fair and it is a mistake to defund planneded parenthood. It's one of many issues. Senator Collins, thank you for your time this morning. Thank you, George.
http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/video/republican-house-members-hearing-constituents-upset-gop-health-47255498
Republican House members are hearing from constituents upset over the GOP health care bill Video - ABC News This is a weekend of frustration and uncertainty in American politics, as well. With Republicans who voted to repeal and replace Obamacare facing fiery town halls like this. Meanwhile, there's another story looming having to do with the investigations into possible connections between team trump and Russia. David Wright is with the president in bedminster, new Jersey. Reporter: Hi, Paula. Hi, Dan. Republican lawmakers are hearing loud and clear from constituents that don't like some of the provisions of the health care bill. They're saying they feel betrayed. These are human beings! We have bodies, we have minds! Reporter: In upstate new York, congressman Tom Reid reassured his constituents that people with pre-existing conditions need not worry about the Republican bill. The bill protects the pre-existing conditions. No! Reporter: In fact, the bill rolls back the affordable care act's protections for patients with pre-existing conditions. Health insurers would have to cover them. But the bill allows insurance companies to raise rates on those patients. Possibly making their insurance unaffordable. In Idaho, congressman recall Labrador pushed back. That lie is so indefensible. Nobody dies because they don't have access to health care. All: Hey, hey, ho, ho. Reporter: Congressman Rodney freelingheisen switched his vote from no to yes just last week. I spofrt looking at pre-existing conditions. He was holding my flert his hand, yes, when he said that. Reporter: Adina survived stage 4 breast cancer. Now in remission, thanks to these pills. So it's called ibranz. Ibranz. Reporter: They cast $11,000 a month. More than she earns. $500 a pill. But it's saving my life. Reporter: Do you feel like you're congressman joild out? Yes, absolutely. I'm furious. Reporter: Here in New Jersey, the president continues to be little bit defensive about his decision to come to bedminster. Saying the reason he's stage here and not in New York City is that it would be much more expense and disruptive to go there. Meetings. But check out this picture. He's taking time to lower his handicap. Dan, Paula? Congress has been exploring the impact of Russia on the election. This week, Sally Yates is set to testify. What can you tell us? Reporter: She's the former top justice department official. She was the kt aing attorney general at the beginning of the trump administration. She'll testify for the very first time tomorrow before a senate committee. She'll be talking about the warnings she gave the administration about Michael fl Flynn, the former national security adviser and his contacts are Russia. Also, surveillance will be on the question list. Dan an Paula? Dade Wright. Thank you very much. Let's bring in George Stephanopoulos. How consequential do you expect this testimony to be? It's likely to be dramatic. Americans will hear the warning she gave to the white house about Michael Flynn. What that changes his story, hard to know. Flynn is actually, officially, everyone though he's left the administration, he's facing some legal jeopardy. He's trying to get immunity to testify. What is his story? What would he say? Would that change if he got inmunty? Let's do to health care. Democrats see this as a window of opportunity. To take back the house of representatives. You have Paul Ryan, exclusively, on the show this morning. Do you think he should be worried? That's one of the things we'll ask him. The in 2010, the Democrats got wiped out after they voted for Obama care in 2009. They believe the same thing will happen to Republican this is time around. They're taking away a benefit a lot of people feel they already have, at least that's the argument the Democrats will make. I think the big question, 2018 is still a couple of years away. We don't know what will happen with the bill, whether it gets through the senate? How much change happens inside the senate. Whether it gets to the president's desk. A lot of unknowns out there. Democrats are energized. Let's talk about the elections in France. What kind of impact do you think we'll see, if the any, from the outcome there? One of the things we're already seeing is that last minute revelation on Friday night just before the blackout that the Russian, it appear, also hack aed the French elections. I think it depends on what happens. If marine LE pen defies the odds and wins, that would be major change. Macron would be a little more status quo. I won'tn't expect a huge, huge impact if he wins. If marine LE penwins, earthquake. George has a big show. Including the exclusive interview with house speaker Paul Ryan. His first since the GOP health care bill passed. Coming up later this morning on " This week." And now to an ABC news exclusive. ABC News' Tom Llamas reports on health care experts' estimates on what the GOP bill would mean for Americans of different ages and incomes. The GOP health care bill has cleared the House but it still faces an uphill battle before it becomes law, Jon Karl reports.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/france-chooses-centrist-macron-le-pen-president-exit/story?id=47259916
Play Martin Bureau/ AFP/ Getty Images WATCH France votes in closely-watched election between Le Pen and Macron Emmanuel Macron, a centrist former economy minister who emerged from a crowded field of seasoned politicians, has won the French presidential election, a race widely viewed as a referendum on the swell of nationalism imbuing the continent. After polling agencies initially projected Macron to receive 65 percent of the vote to far-right candidate Marine Le Pen's 35 percent, Le Pen conceded the race and French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve formally declared Macron the winner as a mass of his supporters celebrated in Paris outside the Louvre. Macron, 39, was running in his first bid for elected office against Le Pen of the National Front, a political party founded by her father Jean- Marie Le Pen. " A new page in our long history is opening," Macron said in French in his victory speech. " I want that page to be one of hope and renewed trust... From the very first day of my presidency, democracy will be the foundation of my activity and I will not let any obstacle come in my way." The upstart Macron, who resigned from his ministry position to start his own independent political party, En Marche, just over a year ago, was widely viewed as a longshot candidate when he announced his bid for the presidency. He and Le Pen advanced to a runoff election after finishing first and second in an initial vote two weeks ago. Macron is expected to be sworn in within days, succeeding current French President Francois Hollande. Hollande called Macron to congratulate him after polls closed on Sunday and wrote on Twitter in French that he expressed his "best wishes for success." Laurent Cipriani/ AP Photo Supporters of French independent centrist presidential candidate, Emmanuel Macron react outside the Louvre museum in Paris, May 7, 2017. The president-elect's initial challenge will be to reconcile with the widespread nationalistic fervor that buoyed his opponent. Le Pen, in her second run for the presidency following a failed bid in 2012, took steps to moderate the hard-line right-wing positions upon which her father founded the National Front. Despite Macron's projected wide electoral margin, turnout at the polls was far below normal and a large number of ballots were cast in which no candidate was selected, which may be further evidence of the political divisions in the country. The 35 percent received by Le Pen would be the strongest showing for a National Front candidate in a presidential election by a wide margin. " I know the divisions of our nation that led some to extreme votes. I respect these," Macron said. " I know the anger, the anxiety, the doubts that a large part of you have also expressed. It is my responsibility to hear these." Le Pen's candidacy was the latest in a wave of competitive elections for nationalists in Europe, jump-started by Great Britain's vote last summer to exit the European Union. In March, the Dutch Party for Freedom led by Geert Wilders -- an ally of Le Pen who pledged to "de- Islamise" the Netherlands -- finished second in that country's general election. Bertrand Guay/ AFP/ Getty Images French presidential election candidate for the far-right Front National ( FN) party Marine Le Pen delivers a speech in Paris, May 7, 2017, after the second round of the French presidential election. Le Pen's positions on national security and the admittance of refugees drew parallels to U. S. President Donald Trump. Trump did not formally endorse a candidate in the French election but did call Le Pen, "strongest on borders." Trump had kind words for Macron on Twitter after the result was announced Sunday, writing, " Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him!" Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 7, 2017 An additional statement from White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said the administration looked forward to "continuing [its] close cooperation with the French government." A spokesperson for German Chancellor Angela Merkel called the result a "victory for a strong and united Europe." Le Pen frequently attacked Macron for close ties to the German leader, saying at a debate last week that, if elected, Macron would be beholden to her. Macron is expected to continue many of the policies championed by Hollande, particularly with regard to foreign relations. The former investment banker is an advocate of free market economics and his ardent support of the European Union was a tenet of his campaign. In the last week, Macron received an endorsement from former U. S. President Barack Obama, whose influence on the French politician was apparent in a campaign built on an outlook of hope -- the same message that vaulted Obama to the White House in 2008. ABC News' Benjamin Gittleson, Mike Trew, Marcus Wilford and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/obama-warned-trump-hiring-flynn-oval-office-meeting/story?id=47276121
President Barack Obama warned then- President-elect Donald Trump not to hire retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn as his national security adviser during their 90-minute Oval Office meeting last November, two former Obama administration officials confirmed to ABC News. The warning was first reported by NBC News on Monday morning, just hours after Trump utilized Twitter to cast blame on the Obama administration for giving Flynn his security clearance. General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration - but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 Obama’s Director of National Intelligence James Clapper fired Flynn as the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency in 2014. Clapper is scheduled to testify alongside former acting Attorney General Sally Yates before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee on crime and terrorism this afternoon about Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, and Flynn is expected to be a major topic of discussion. Before Trump fired Yates for issuing instructions to the Justice Department against defending his first travel ban executive order, she warned White House officials that Flynn may have misled members of the administration, including Vice President Mike Pence, about the nature his conversations with Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak. At Monday afternoon's White House press briefing, Press Secretary Sean Spicer said that Trump didn't disclose the specific details of his meeting with Obama, but Spicer said the reports were no surprise because " President Obama made it known that he wasn't exactly a fan of General Flynn's."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/acting-attorney-general-fired-trump-set-testify-russias/story?id=47263460
Play Aaron P. Bernstein/ Reuters WATCH Former AG Sally Yates testified that she warned the White House about Michael Flynn Sally Yates, the former acting United States attorney general who drew the ire of President Donald Trump for issuing instructions to the Department of Justice not to defend his first "travel ban" executive order, testified that she informed the White House Counsel that the Department of Justice believed that then-national security adviser Michael Flynn could be subject to blackmail by the Russian government. Yates said that she had two in-person meetings the White House Counsel to discuss concerns about Flynn. Yates said that not only was Flynn's conduct "problematic in it of itself," but that also both Vice President Mike Pence and the American people had been misled. " To state the obvious, you don't want your national security adviser compromised with the Russians," she said. Not only did the FBI and Department of Justice know about the conduct, but "the Russians also knew about what Gen. Flynn had done" and that Flynn had misled Pence, Yates said. That created a "compromise situation," in which the national security adviser "essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians." Yates testified today before the Senate Judiciary Committee, alongside former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, as part of its investigation into Russian interference in last year's presidential election. Yates, an appointee of former President Barack Obama, filled the top position at the Justice Department for less than two weeks prior to the confirmation of Jeff Sessions as attorney general. After Flynn's forced resignation in February, it emerged that Yates privately brought concerns about the retired lieutenant general to the White House, informing the administration that Flynn may have misled officials about conversations with Russian Ambassador to the U. S. Sergey Kislyak prior to Trump's inauguration. When asked by White House Counsel Don Mc Gahn during their first meeting whether Flynn should be fired, she said that "it was not our call,” Yates recalled. " We were there to tell the White House about something we were very concerned about and emphasize to them repeatedly so that they could take action," she said. In telling the White House, Yates said she was balancing sharing the "critical" information with the needs of the FBI, but that once Flynn was interviewed, there was no longer a concern about an impact on an investigation. Sen. Diane Feinstein, D- California, asked Yates whether Flynn’s conduct was serious enough that it compromised the security of the nation and the government. " Our point was that logic would tell you that you don’t want your national security adviser in a position where the Russians have leverage over him," Yates responded. Yates also said, " We felt like the vice president was entitled to know that the information he was given and was relaying to the American public wasn’t true," adding that it appeared Flynn was lying to Pence. During this portion of the hearing, Clapper also confirmed previous media reports that it was British intelligence who first notified U. S. government about suspicious interactions between Trump associates and Russian operatives, and that European intelligence later provided further intelligence about such contacts. Asked whether those reports are accurate, Clapper said, " Yes it is, but it's also quite sensitive." Yates' testimony today comes after she notified the White House of her intent to appear before the House Intelligence Committee in March. That hearing was then postponed by Rep. Devin Nunes, R- California, the chairman of the committee, leading Yates' lawyer to raise the question whether the White House took action to prevent her testimony -- a suggestion the administration denied. " I hope she testifies. I look forward to it," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said in March. " We had no objection to her going forward. ... To suggest in any way, shape or form that we stood in the way of that is 100 percent false." Nunes' impartiality in the investigation was later debated by his colleagues on both sides of the aisle after the delay and his trip to the White House to view classified information pertaining to Trump's allegations that he had been wiretapped during the presidential campaign. Nunes eventually announced he would step away from the Russia investigation in April. Aside from discussing the meetings about Flynn, there were many questions Yates declined to answer as the Russia investigation is still ongoing and much of her story includes the top-secret surveillance activities of the U. S. intelligence community. The relationship between Yates and the White House is further complicated by the circumstances surrounding her firing. In January, she instructed the Justice Department not to defend Trump's controversial order limiting travel and immigration from seven majority- Muslim countries in the Middle East and Africa. " I understand that, you know, people of goodwill and -- who are good folks can make different decisions about this. I understand that. But all I can say is that I did my job the best way I knew how. I looked at this executive order. I looked at the law. I talked with the folks at the Department of Justice, gathered them all to get their views and their input, and I did my job." She wrote at the time of her decision that she was not convinced that defense of the executive order was "right" or "lawful." During today's hearing, Yates insisted that this situation was rare in that it not only dealt with executive authority but also with religious freedom. She also expressed frustration that neither she nor other top DOJ officials were told anything about the coming executive order -- learning about it from media reports after meeting with the White House about Flynn. Yates was fired on Jan. 30 just hours after instructing the department not to defend the travel ban executive order. She was replaced as acting attorney general by Dana Boente, who vowed to defend the executive order. Sessions was ultimately confirmed -- amid questions about his own relationship with Kislyak -- on Feb. 8. Asked whether the U. S. government is doing enough to deter future attacks from Russia, Yates said, " I think they are coming back and we need to do more to ensure that folks out there know when they are looking halt news feeds that it may not be real news that they are reading. " I think that we have to do more to deter the Russians, and it wouldn't hurt to prosecute a few folks, but I don’t think we should kid ourselves that we'll be able to prosecute our way out” of this problem, she added. Clapper said that the most important thing that needs to be done is to "educate the electorate" about the Russian tactics and objectives that were deployed during the 2016 election and will continue to be used. He also said he believes more needs to be done in the way of "sanctions" against the Russians or any other government that attempts to interfere in the U. S. election process.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-expected-judicial-nominees-today/story?id=47271996
After the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch's nomination to the Supreme Court, President Trump is expected to announce nominees to the federal bench on Monday, a White House official confirmed, in a move to fill nearly 130 federal court vacancies. The list of nominees, which was first reported by The New York Times, includes several names on Trump’s list of potential Supreme Court picks — a list widely praised by conservatives. Supreme Court nominee seeks distance from Trump administration, says attacks on federal judges ‘disheartening’ David Stras, an associate justice of the Minnesota Supreme Court, and Joan Larsen, a member of the Michigan Supreme Court, will be nominated for positions on the 8th and 6th federal appeals court circuits, respectively. Both clerked for conservative members of the Supreme Court and were on the Trump campaign’s Supreme Court shortlist. Trump will announce several other nominees to federal appeals courts, along with a handful of federal district court nominees. “ When it comes to fulfilling his campaign promise to appoint strong, principled judges, Trump is knocking it out of the park,” Carrie Severino, the chief counsel of the Judicial Crisis Network, said in response to the initial report. Along with judicial vacancies, Trump has yet to fill hundreds of political appointments across the federal government. According to the Partnership for Public Service, a nonpartisan nonprofit organization that focuses on civil service, 465 positions requiring Senate confirmation remain unfilled.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/donald-trump-tweets-sally-yates-ahead-senate-hearing/story?id=47273261
President Donald Trump tweeted this morning about former acting Attorney General Sally Yates before her scheduled appearance at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. Yates is expected to address the concerns that she reportedly raised in January about the veracity of claims made by then–national security adviser Michael Flynn over his conversations with the Russian ambassador to the U. S. Yates was fired by Trump on Jan. 30 after saying the Justice Department would not defend his proposed travel ban. " Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W. H. Counsel," he wrote, originally misspelling "counsel" and later correcting it. Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W. H. Council.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 At today’s White House press briefing, press secretary Sean Spicer refused to elaborate on the president’s tweet. " I think the tweet speaks for itself. Sometimes you don't have to read too much into it," Spicer said. Trump posted another tweet on the topic — but not about Yates directly — nearly 20 minutes earlier. In that tweet, he pointed the finger at the Obama administration for giving Flynn "the highest security clearance." General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration - but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 Yates and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper are scheduled to appear in front of the committee today.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/acting-attorney-general-sally-yates/story?id=46444595
Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates is set to testify today in front of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism in a hearing on Russia's meddling in the 2016 election. Her very public firing by President Donald Trump was back in January after a career spanning more than 27 years with the Justice Department. Yates was previously scheduled to testify on March 28 at a House Intelligence Committee open hearing as part of its probe into Russia's interference in the 2016 election. A week before her expected testimony, committee Chair Devin Nunes, R- California, postponed the opening hearing, the same day Yates' attorney advised the Trump administration that she would testify about internal discussions she had about communications between Trump's former National Security Adviser Mike Flynn and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Since then, reports have emerged that the Trump administration sought to block Yates' testimony. The White House has pushed back against those reports, maintaining that it took no such action. Family: She and her husband, Comer Yates, have a daughter, Kelley, and a son, James " Quill." Comer Yates is the executive director of Atlanta Speech School, a school for children with hearing and learning disabilities, and is a lawyer by training. Comer Yates also ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1994 and 1996. Sally Yates comes from a family of lawyers. Her father, Kelley Quillian, was a judge on the Georgia Court of Appeals, and his father and brother were also lawyers. Her grandmother was admitted to the State Bar of Georgia, but because of the times, she did not become a lawyer. Education: Sally Yates graduated from the University of Georgia in 1982 with a bachelor's degree in journalism. She went on to get her law degree at the University of Georgia School of Law. Her legal career: Sally Yates passed the State Bar of Georgia in 1986 and went to work for three years at the Atlanta office of King & Spalding, as a commercial litigation associate. She joined the U. S. Attorney's Office in Atlanta in 1989. She started as assistant U. S. attorney, working her way up to chief of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section from 1994 to 2002 and then first assistant U. S. attorney from 2002 to 2010. She was the lead prosecutor in the 1996 trial of Eric Rudolph, the man convicted of the bombing at Atlanta's Centennial Park during the 1996 Olympics. " The Rudolph case was one of the most interesting cases I've ever done," she said in a 2013 interview with the Atlanta Journal- Constitution. " Of all the cases I've done, that's the greatest example of the power of a team." Sally Yates became the first woman U. S. attorney for the Northern District of Georgia when she was appointed by President Barack Obama in 2010 and held the position for almost five years. On Jan. 8, 2015, Obama nominated Sally Yates as deputy attorney general and she was confirmed to the position on May 13, 2015. When Loretta Lynch, who became U. S. attorney general when Sally Yates became deputy, left the DOJ on Inauguration Day, Sally Yates stepped in as acting attorney general until then- Sen. Jeff Sessions would be confirmed to lead the DOJ. Sally Yates was fired on Jan. 30 after she instructed the DOJ not to defend Trump’s Jan. 27 executive order barring immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries. The order was later blocked in court. The White House said in a statement that Sally Yates "betrayed the Department of Justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States." " Ms. Yates is an Obama Administration appointee who is weak on borders and very weak on illegal immigration," the statement read. In a letter to top DOJ lawyers handling the cases related to Trump's executive order on immigration, Yates directed them to hold off from defending it. " At present, I am not convinced that the defense of the Executive Order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the Executive Order is lawful," Sally Yates wrote. She continued, " Consequently, for as long as I am the Acting Attorney General, the Department of Justice will not present arguments in defense of the Executive Order, unless and until I become convinced that it is appropriate to do so." Dana Boente took over for Sally Yates after she was fired, and Sessions was confirmed on Feb. 8 as attorney general. When she was still acting attorney general, Sally Yates had informed White House Counsel Don Mc Gahn on Jan. 26 that they were misled by Flynn about the nature of his calls with Kislyak before Trump took office. During her Senate confirmation hearing on March 24, 2015, Sally Yates had an interesting exchange with then- Sen. Sessions, who is now attorney general. " Do you think the attorney general has a responsibility to say no to the president if he asks for something that's improper?" Sessions asked Sally Yates. She replied, " Senator, I believe that the attorney general or the deputy attorney general has an obligation to follow the law and the Constitution, and to give their independent legal advice to the president."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/obama-offers-defense-affordable-care-act-profile-courage/story?id=47266932
Play Steven Senne/ AP Photo WATCH Obama offers defense of Affordable Care Act in Profile in Courage speech Former President Barack Obama offered a full-throated defense of the Affordable Care Act at the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston Sunday evening, where he was accepting the Profile in Courage award, the same week House Republicans finally passed a plan they say will replace his signature legislative achievement. Obama used the opportunity to highlight the Democrats who voted for the ACA and then lost their seats in Congress, noting that they chose to look out for Americans as a whole, rather than taking the politically convenient route. " These men and women did the right thing, the hard thing, and theirs was a profile in courage, and because of that vote, 20 million people got health insurance that didn't have it before," Obama said. The 44th president was joined at the gala by a host of former administration officials, including Vice President Joe Biden, Secretary of State John Kerry, and former U. S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of President John F. Kennedy. Obama also offered a number of allusions to optimism in what he called "a time of great cynicism about our institutions." " I have said before that I believe what Dr. King said -- that the arc of the moral universe bends, but it bends towards justice," Obama said. " I have also said that it does not bend on its own, but it bends because we bend it, and we put our hand on the arc and we move it in the direction of justice and freedom and equality and kindness and generosity. It does not happen on its own." Winners of the Profile in Courage Award in prior years include Presidents George H. W. Bush and Gerald Ford, Sen. John Mc Cain, Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, among others.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/gop-senator-senate-fresh-approach-health-care/story?id=47246635
Play Pete Marovich/ Getty Images WATCH Sen. Susan Collins says ' Senate is starting from scratch' on health care bill Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, said the Senate will come up with a "new, fresh approach" to health care rather than rigidly follow the Obamacare replacement bill narrowly passed by the House on Thursday. “ The Senate is starting from scratch," Collins told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos in an exclusive interview Sunday on " This Week." " We're going to draft our own bill and I’m convinced that we're going to take the time to do it right,” she said. House Speaker Paul Ryan, who also appeared on “ This Week,” acknowledged that the Senate would make changes to the bill. But Collins said she thinks the upper chamber will “come up with a whole new fresh approach that solves the legitimate flaws that do exist with the [ Affordable Care Act] ... but it will keep some benefits of the ACA.” The Maine senator said it’s “unlikely” that people with pre-existing medical conditions would get the same or better coverage under the House bill than under Obamacare because the legislation would give states freedom on aspects of insurance coverage. “ If the coverage [offered under the bill] is unaffordable, that doesn't do any good for a child who has juvenile diabetes," she said. Collins also took issue with the bill’s failure to adjust the size of its tax credits based on people's income or where they live. “ That really hurts a state like Maine, where we have an older population living in largely more expensive, rural areas, as far as health care is concerned,” she said. " I don't think low-income women should be denied their choice of health care providers, for family planning, cancer screenings, for well-women care,” Collins said. “ It's not fair and it is a mistake to defund Planned Parenthood.” In the Senate, not a single woman is part of the working group created to overhaul health care. Stephanopoulos asked Collins why she, one of only five Republican female Senators, wasn’t included in the group. Collins added that she would like to a bipartisan group of Senators take on health care, including Democrats who acknowledge problems with Obamacare and " Republicans who also want to make sure that we're not reducing coverage and we're giving flexibility.”
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/ryan-worried-voter-backlash-keeping-word-health-care/story?id=47247986
Play Chip Somodevilla/ Getty Images WATCH Speaker Ryan calls House health care bill 'rescue mission,' says GOP is 'keeping our word' House Speaker Paul Ryan said he isn't worried about the possibility of Republicans losing congressional seats in the 2018 midterm elections in a voter backlash to the bill to replace the Affordable Care Act. " We're keeping our word" on repealing Obamacare, Ryan told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos in an exclusive interview on " This Week" Sunday. " People expect their elected leaders, if they run and campaign on doing something, they expect them to do that. And that's what we're doing." In contrast, the House's Democratic leader, Nancy Pelosi, told her Republican colleagues ahead of the vote on the bill Thursday that approving the legislation would put their seats at risk. " You have every provision of this bill tattooed on your forehead. You will glow in the dark on this one," Pelosi said. " So don't walk the plank." The GOP bill, the American Health Care Act, narrowly passed the House on Thursday and now heads to the Senate. Some senators have signaled that they plan to start from scratch in writing a new health care bill. In response to the House vote, Cook Political Report changed its projections on 20 House elections in 2018 in favor of Democrats, saying passage of the American Health Care Act "guarantees Democrats will have at least one major on-the-record vote to exploit in the next elections." “ House Republicans' willingness to spend political capital on a proposal that garnered the support of just 17 percent of the public in a March Quinnipiac poll is consistent with past scenarios that have generated a midterm wave," David Wasserman wrote for the political report. " Health care is a complicated and very emotional personal issue. And we completely understand that," Ryan said. " The system is failing. We're stepping in front of it and rescuing people from a collapsing system."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/epa-chief-recuses-lawsuits/story?id=47247916
J. Scott Applewhite/ AP Photo Environmental Protection Agency Administrator-designate Scott Pruitt arrives on Capitol Hill in Washington, Jan. 18, 2017. EPA chief Scott Pruitt has recused himself from lawsuits against the Environmental Protection Agency that he was involved in as Oklahoma's attorney general. Pruitt’s recusal statement, obtained by E& E news and dated May 4, outlines several lawsuits he has agreed not to be involved in until one year after his Senate confirmation on Feb. 18 of this year. He also will not take part in any cases in which the state of Oklahoma is a party. " I am taking this action to avoid even the appearance of any impropriety," Pruitt said in the statement. In his previous role as Oklahoma attorney general, Pruitt participated in more than a dozen lawsuits against the EPA, including challenges to the Obama-era's Clean Power Plan and a rule related to the Clean Water Act. During Pruitt's confirmation hearing, Democrats pressed him on his stances on rules intended to protect against climate change and air and water pollution and urged him to recuse himself from the 14 cases in which he had participated in lawsuits against the agency he was named to lead. " What the American people are expecting here is that the EPA doesn't turn into every polluters' ally," Sen. Edward Markey, D- Massachusetts, said to Pruitt during his hearing, urging him to recuse himself "from every case you brought." Pruitt at the hearing discussed his view that the bulk of environmental regulations should be in the hands of the states. In explaining his decision to now recuse himself from the lawsuits, Pruitt wrote in the statement that he had conferred with the Office of General Counsel's Ethics Office and determined, " I must recuse myself from matters in which I have a financial interest, or a personal or business relationship." " I am committed to enacting the president's regulatory agenda by reviewing, revising or rescinding rules and regulations created by the previous administration that cause undue or unnecessary stress on American jobs or the economy," Pruitt said in a statement about the recusal. " While I have recused myself from making decisions on specific cases, it is my duty and privilege as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to actively engage in rulemaking."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/house-republicans-face-voters-home-districts-angry-health/story?id=47247115
Rep. Tom Reed of New York, who was among the Republican members of Congress to vote for a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, held a string of hometown forums on Saturday where he was lambasted by crowds of angry voters and signs that read, " GOP Disaster" and " Why do you want to kill my daughter?" Reed, whose district in upstate New York includes the cities of Ithaca and Corning, held three town hall meetings where the overwhelming majority of attendees had questions about health care. The congressman was met with boos and jeers throughout the forums, with people repeatedly chanting " Shame!" and " Vote him out!" At the event in the town of Busti, a couple hundred people packed into a small firehouse holding up signs that read, " Agree," " Disagree" or " Lies," depending on Reed's answers. Some of the harsher signs read, " This is not a victory lap. This is a walk of shame" and " Fire Reed." One man, who had recently donated his kidney, said he was told he's now considered to have a pre-existing condition. " Now that I have a pre-existing condition, my cost of health care could go up significantly or I could lose health care," he said to Reed in front of the crowd in Busti. Another person in the room interrupted the man, calling him a "hero" for his kidney donation and then said he was being "punished" for his good deed. On Thursday, the House of Representatives narrowly passed the the American Health Care Act on a 217-213 vote, with all Democrats and 20 Republicans voting no. The measure, which would repeal large parts of former President Barack Obama's legacy legislation, is now before the Senate. In a statement Thursday, Reed hailed the House's passage of the health care plan as "a great victory" that will provide property tax relief for New Yorkers "who are unfairly forced to foot the bill for Medicaid." " Today is a great victory for the American people. We are finally on the path to fixing our broke and broken health care system," Reed said. The congressman also said the American Health Care Act "upholds protections for pre-existing conditions and the expansion of Medicaid, which help our most vulnerable populations," although one of the most controversial provisions of the bill would give the states the option of seeking a waiver to allow insurance companies to raise premiums for people with pre-existing conditions. Reed was among the first Republican House members to confront angry constituents at town hall meetings this weekend. Other Republican as well as Democrat House members are scheduled to hold more town hall meetings in their home districts around the country in the coming days. Photos posted on social media show Reed addressing his first town hall of the day in Dunkirk, with some people holding signs declaring: " Keep your profits off my healthcare," " So long farewell Tom Reed" and " No conscience no heart." At Tom Reed's town hall meeting. NY-23 is in an uproar over his vote to repeal the ACA Walter Robertson III (@wrobertson3rd) May 6, 2017 Reed tweeted photos of him engaging with attendees and thanked people for coming to the morning and afternoon meetings in Dunkirk, Busti and Hinsdale. Thanks to everyone who came to my Town Hall in Dunkirk this morning Tom Reed (@ Rep Tom Reed) May 6, 2017 Stop two of three for our town hall meetings. Thanks to all who joined me in Busti. Tom Reed (@ Rep Tom Reed) May 6, 2017 Final stop of the day in Hinsdale. Thanks to all who came out. Tom Reed (@ Rep Tom Reed) May 6, 2017 An Idaho Republican congressman is facing criticism for a comment about the health care bill that he made at a town hall in his district Friday. A video posted on You Tube shows the Republican congressman responding to a woman who suggested that people die from a lack of access ti health care. “ That line is so indefensible,” Labrador said. “ Nobody dies because they don’t have access to health care.” Wisconsin's Republican governor, Scott Walker got into a heated exchange with a Democratic county official in his state over the House bill at an event Friday to promote tourism. A video of the exchange shows Outagamie County Executive Tom Nelson approaching the Republican governor as he was about to speak with reporters. Nelson claimed that 300,000 people in northeast Wisconsin could lose their insurance if the American Health Care Act becomes law. " This is a big deal. Three hundred thousand people in Northeast Wisconsin," Nelson told the governor. " If you want to run for Congress, you had your chance," Walker said, repeating essentially the same reply several times during their exchange. Nelson, a Democrat, ran unsuccessfully for Congress last year, losing to Republican Mike Gallagher, who voted in favor of the American Health Care Act. Walker also told Nelson that the House bill is not something that Wisconsin has to deal with at this point. " It's not in front of us right now. It's not in front of this stage," Walker continued. " The plan is, I'm going to wait for what the Senate and the president do and see from there." The American Health Care Act is now before the Senate, and the Senate Budget Committee must review it to determine which portions are in compliance with the rules of reconciliation, under which the bill only requires 51 Senate votes for approval. Republicans hold a slim majority in the Senate but several members are already wary of the health care plan. “ At the end of the day, I think it'll be a Senate bill and then those two bills at some point will have to come together and we'll get started on that Senate bill immediately,” Sen. Roy Blunt, R- Missouri, a member of Senate leadership, told ABC News on Thursday. White House Deputy Chief of Staff Rick Dearborn said the Trump administration has its work cut out for it to push the bill through the Senate, but he doesn't think they'll be starting over on the legislation. " I don't think there's a start from scratch," Dearborn told ABC News' Political Director Rick Klein and Chief White House Correspondent Jonathan Karl on the " Powerhouse Politics" podcast. " Will there be some changes? Of course, the Senate is a different animal than the House," he continued. " But I think we feel really good where we are. There's a proposal that will now go the Senate. We'll work with Senate leadership and the committee chairmen and the rank and file."
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/ag-sally-yates-testified-warned-white-house-michael-47286758
She warned that Flynn was at risk of being blackmailed; Obama personally warned Trump two days after the election. us here on a very busy Monday night. And we begin with Sally Yates. Her testimony ending just a short time ago, offering in detail the warning she says she gave the white house about president trump's national security adviser, retired general Michael Flynn. Yates telling congress about her two meetings inside the white house, with the white house council and what he then asked about Flynn. And she made it clear today, she says she warned them Flynn was in her words, compromised, and could be blackmailed by Russia. Yet Michael Flynn would stay on the job for weeks and was there for a call with president trump and president Putin. ABC senior justice correspondent Pierre Thomas leading us off. Reporter: She walked into a crush of cameras. Senator Lindsey graham opening with this -- Back in your cages. Reporter: The intense scrutiny following every word of the testimony from former acting attorney general Sally Yates as she outlined the steps she took to warn the white house about then-national security advisor Michael Flynn. Because this was a matter of some urgency. Reporter: Yates describing an intense call to white house counsel don mcgahn on the morning of January 26th. I told him I had a very sensitive matter that I needed to discuss with him, that I couldn't talk about it on the phone and that I needed to come see him. Reporter: She went to the white house that very day to discuss concerns Flynn might have been lying to white house officials. The vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public, and because we believed that general Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians. We believe that the Russians knew this and that created a compromise situation, a situation where the national security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians. Reporter: Yates citing repeated concerns from trump officials that he had not discussed sanctions against the Kremlin for meddling in the U. S. Election on a call with the Russian ambassador. But Yates knew otherwise, because Flynn was caught on electronic surveillance allegedly discussing those sanctions the same day they were announced. We were concerned that the American people had been misled. So, what you're saying is that general Flynn lied to the vice president? That's certainly how it appeared, yes. The underlying conduct that general Flynn had engaged in was problematic, in and of itself. Reporter: The next day, another urgent meeting at the white house. The first topic in the second meeting was essentially, why does it matter to doj if one white house official lies to another? Reporter: The white house counsel also wanted to know if Flynn likely faced criminal charges and expressed concern that taking action against Flynn might interfere with an ongoing FBI investigation. And the fourth topic was his request to see the underlying evidence. Reporter: Yates said the evidence was presented to the white house on the morning of January 30th, the very day she was fired for refusing to enforce president trump's travel ban. I don't know whether that ever happened, whether they looked at that evidence or not. Reporter: Democrats today asking why Flynn was allowed to stay in his job for 18 days after the warning, even participating in an oval office phone call between president trump and Russian leader Vladimir Putin. But some Republicans were focusing on how classified information about Flynn ended up in the press. Have either of you ever been an anonymous source in a news report about matters relating to Mr. Trump, his associates, or Russia's attempt to meddle in the election? No. Absolutely not. Reporter: And Yates with a final warning to the American people about Russian meddling. We have to coa lot more to harden our election systems, our state election systems, to ensure that folks out there know when they're looking at news feeds that it may not be real news that they're reading. All right, so, let's get to Pierre Thomas live at the capitol tonight. Yates testifying, Pierre, that the white house counsel asked during one of those meetings whether Flynn should be fired, they asked her? Reporter: David, Yates said she offered no recommendation, saying it was a white house call, not hers. And we are hearing today that the Obama administration officials, that the president warned trump in the oval office about Flynn, just two days after the election. David? The president warned them, as well. All right, Pierre Thomas leading us off, thank you. Former acting AG Sally Yates and former DNI James Clapper testified before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism about Russian interference in 2016 election. ABC News' Amna Nawaz and Rick Klein break down the White House press briefing ahead of Sally Yates' testimony before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism.
http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/trump-administration-defends-travel-ban-barring-muslims-intends-47286717
Trump administration defends the travel ban, saying barring Muslims is not what it intends to do Video - ABC News A controversial statement on Muslim immigration was deleted from the Trump campaign site just minutes after it was brought up in the White House press briefing. us off, thank you. Sally Yates making news over her warnings involving retired general Michael Flynn. As you'll remember, she was fired after she refused to enforce president trump's travel ban. She believed the ban was unconstitutional. She was pressed on that today. Who appointed you to the United States supreme court? That determines -- isn't it a court of final jurisdiction? Not personally wrestled over this decision. And it was not one that I took lightly at all. I believe that it is the responsibility of the attorney general, if the president asks him or her to do something, that he or she believes is unlawful or unconstitutional, to say no. Sally Yates testifying about her role, standing up to the proposed ban and getting fired because of it. The president's first version of that plan was blocked by the courts. Will it survive this time? At issue, this question. Should the president's words while he was on the campaign trail matter in determining his true intention for the temporary ban? Here's ABC's senior white house correspondent scecilia Vega tonight. Reporter: In a Virginia appellate court today, one of president trump's most controversial campaign promises came back to haunt him. Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what the hell is going on. Reporter: Plaintiffs say that is proof the president's travel ban temporarily restricting people from six majority-muslim countries, at its heart, is a Muslim ban. Lawyers for the trump administration argue the president's statements before election day don't count. Generally they should not get much weight because you have not taken the oath of office to uphold the constitution, you haven't formed an administration or consulted with them. Reporter: But some of the 13 judges skeptical. Are you saying then the president could say that every day as a candidate for a year, " I intend to ban muslims. They are bad people," and then the first day in office he does that -- you have to -- you're saying that none of those statements could be considered? Reporter: Another judge weighing in -- He's never repudiated what he said about the Muslim ban. It is still on his website. Reporter: Why does the president's website still explicitly call for, quote, " Preventing Muslim immigration"? I'm not aware what's on the campaign website, you'd have to ask them. Reporter: If the president's words are being used against him in court today, is it worth you clarifying that once and for all? Yeah, I'm -- I'm trying to figure out why I would -- I've been very clear -- I don't think I need to clarify what we have said or what the president has said. Reporter: And within minutes of our question, that Muslim ban statement, wiped from the site. Back in February, when the courts first put the executive order on hold, the president warned potential terrorists would pour into the country. And have you seen any evidence that's been the case in the three months since this ban was lifted? Think that's a question for the department of homeland security. And Cecilia Vega is with us tonight. We heard Sean spicer say, you should ask the department of homeland security. And so you did. What did they tell you? Reporter: They said, unfortunately, this information is not readily available. We do not expect a ruling on this travel ban case for a few weeks. David, it appears headed all the oui to the supreme court. All right, Cecilia Vega with us tonight. Cecilia, thank you. A federal judge in Hawaii on Wednesday extended the order blocking President Trump's controversial travel ban until the state's lawsuit is resolved. Protesters marched in front of the White House on the day Trump signed a revised travel ban that removes Iraq from the list of banned majority- Muslim countries and removes the indefinite ban on Syrian refugees. ABC News' Cecilia Vega asks press secretary Sean Spicer about the travel ban during White House press briefing.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/original-muslim-ban-erased-trump-campaign-website-47285883
What a president trump executive action order facing off in federal court today. Is are you keep saying over and willful blindness that would prevent us from gitmo those statements he made clear he was not talking about Muslims all over the world and that's why this is not Muslim but it. The fourth Circuit Court of Appeals bucking protocol from a three judge panel. Instead the case being heard it by thirteen members of the court after two judges recused themselves after his first travel be an outrage spread across the country. That he and pulled by the trump administration. The second one still blocking six Muslim majority nations. And blocked days before would've gone into effect not in one federal court but to. One in Maryland and the other in Hawaii. The Maryland judge wrote the history of public statements reveal the purpose was that realization of the long envisioned Muslim ban. The artery blocked. Was they watered down version up the first daughter. The White House today steaming by the ban. The insisting it's not a Muslim ban the idea of making sure that we're putting. The safety of our country and our people first and former. That page has since been taken down but this site is just getting started. Next week lawyers for the government had to Seattle to appeal the ninth circuit's ruling. Serena Marshall ABC news the capitol.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/sally-yates-testifies-russia-47285209
What did you tell the light announce about mr. Flynn. Sally Yates the former acting attorney general told the senate subcommittee investigating Russian interference in US elections how she warned the White House counsel and number press accounts of statements that have been made that a vice president and other. High ranking White House officials. About general plans conduct that we need to be on trade prior to being fired for her opposition to the president's travel ban the acting attorney general had war trump administration. That their new national security advisor Michael Flynn was not being honest. People like president pence that he had no contact with Russian officials. Which led to Clinton's firing a situation where the national security advisor. Essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians but it was miss aide to president trump impugned on Twitter writing. Asked Sally yanked under oath if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to White House counsel. Also on Monday it was revealed that during the transition President Obama warned then president elect trump. Not to hire general Flynn. The suggestion that White House spokesman Sean Spicer brushed off. This is a guy who was very outspoken in his criticism for president wants policies so the idea that President Obama. You know didn't didn't didn't like the guy doesn't seem shocking the question you have to ask yourself this if they were concerned why didn't they take any sense. Ms. Yates was also joined by the former Director of National Intelligence James clapper both or oust if they had been the source of or had authorized. Those leaks of classified information and both that under oath and radically that they had not on attack ABC news Washington.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/vega-spicer-trump-website-call-muslim-ban-47279650
ABC News' Cecilia Vega asks press secretary Sean Spicer about the travel ban during White House press briefing. Thank you ever the president said that lifting the travel ban would mean many badly injured people would be more and have you seen any evidence that indicates the three months since. This ban was put it I think that's a question for the department Homeland Security that you know I personally he felt an. I'd be glad to follow the Department of Homeland Security I don't have anything at this time. It up. If if if this let us go longer haul in this month and the president did. Why does the presence web site so explicitly call for what defending Muslim immigration it says Donald. Totaling 3%. And I the United States. I'm not aware of. Campaign flip side test and I know. Vacation travel that is news countries. Just make sure that people are coming here coming your story motive means that. Public safety aspect of making sure we'll protect people and best we've we've been very consistent this first day this administration on this intimate. Without the use factories smile on man it's still on the web site. This worsening you get to court today. It for a few clarifying that I yeah I am I'm. I'm time throughout why I would I'd been very clear. I don't think I need to clarify what would we have sent with the president sentences. Quirk I understand that that's frankly one of the reasons that we we have concerns about how that's being interpreted because they think. The intention. Of the travel and it was very clear I think he it was. Something that the president made very clear in the filings that we have filed. Why he did it the motives for doing any was very clearly spoke about the beginning so. There really shouldn't be any question as to why the president's doing this and that the idea of making sure that we're putting the safety of our country and our people first performance. Press secretary Sean Spicer said unauthorized immigrants who "pose a threat to our public safety or have committed a crime will be the first to go."
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/white-house-confirms-warning-obama-hiring-flynn-47278994
Press secretary Sean Spicer said "it's true" Obama made clear to President Trump that he wasn't a fan of Michael Flynn. The president doesn't disclose details of meetings that he has which in this case was an hourlong meeting but it's true that the president made it President Obama made it known it. He wasn't exactly a fan of general plans. Which is frankly shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone given that. General Flynn had worked for President Obama was an outspoken critic of President Obama shortcoming specifically as it related to his. Lack of strategy confronting crisis and other threats round. That we're facing America so that the question you have to ask yourself really is a President Obama was truly concerned. About general plan why didn't he suspend general when security clearance which they just re approved months earlier. Additionally why did the Obama administration let him go to Russia for a pay speaking engagement received three and there were steps that they could have taken that. If they did that was truly concerned more than just a person that they didn't have that behind.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/obama-warned-trump-hiring-flynn-oval-office-meeting-47278523
There are reports prison and Obama ward Donald Trump against hiring Michael Flynn as national security advisor in the days after the 2016 election. This as a senate investigation into Russian involvement in the election continues we'll all eyes today on former acting attorney general Sally Yates Yates. Expected to testify that she warned the White House the former national security advisor Michael Flynn allegedly had contacts with Russia. Pop contacts that could compromise his office in the administration. Flynn was fired after misleading the White House about his communications with Russian officials.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/sen-kirsten-gillibrand-paid-family-leave-trump-familys-47276968
Gillibrand sat down with the co-hosts of the " The View" to discuss working across party lines to pass paid family leave legislation and the Trump family's conflict of interest with investments overseas. John on " View your deal." Hey. We are back with senator Kirsten Gillibrand. We're talking about running for mayor in New York, but we'll bring that up later. I love she comes out of the Gates with this. That's what I have heard all month. You are a leading voice on women's issues. In regard to equal pay, paid family leave. Ivanka Trump has spoken out about some of the same policies. Do you think that is a direction you could go in trying to further the cause? Maybe talking with ivanka? We haven't seen a lot of her policies play out, or her help with these, but maybe she has her father's ear? It's about her father. What does president trump care about? Does he actually want to pass a national pay leave? I stand ready to work with him or anybody on the issues that matter. If you created national insurance, what it would look like is $2 a week. Would you spend $2 to week to know if your mom is dying of cancer, you can be by her side? If you have a new baby, you or your husband can be with that child. All of us will have life experiences. We will have a dying parent, sick spouse, new baby. We are the only industrialized country in the world that doesn't have paid leave. If you made insurance where you buy in over your life, and it's cheap. If it's $2 a week, it's the cost of a cup of coffee. They can afford that. 108 bucks per year per employee. That would make a difference. I will work with anybody because I know it would help families. It would help the economy, and keep more people in the workplace, becoming senior. Earning more. Be loyal. States do it, and New York just passed it. The evidence in California that have for ten years, 90% of businesses have had no negative impact or positive impact, and 90% said it eniincreased morale and inintentions. You say it will get done though. This country doesn't seem to get things done that are so obvious and logical. Our best day is 20 years behind the rest of the country. They are already there. If you pull everybody, I mean, everybody, overwhelmingly, people say I want paid leave. Something has been getting under my skin. I know you're a lawyer. We're seeing Jared Kushner, and ivanka Donald tru Ivanka Trump, and president trump get gifts in the form of patents and Visas. That's law school 101, illegal, isn't it, snr? I share your concern. I see lining your pockets, pay for play. I see conflicts of interest. It's serious. Cabinet members are required to also follow the law. Why not? I'm very concerned about it because it makes us look at our government and say that it's spot and paid for. It's corrupt. You see corruption. It's just not right, and so we as citizens, need to hold our elected leaders accountable. We need to speak out about it. We need to talk about what needs to happen, and that this isn't right, and this isn't fair, and we should really call for transparen transparency, and responsibility. It's not right. You can't have government for sale. Lock him up. We have Republican women on the other side who need our support because they are supporting a lot of what's going on. Is that correct? Very much so. So I work very well with the women of the senate. The women of the senate are typically exceedingly bipartisan. Susan Collins helped to pass don't ask, don't tell. Olivia snow helped with the 9/11 health bill, and the women make a huge difference. We can do this with both sides. It's possible. I wanted her to say this for everybody to recognize. It's not one side or the other. It's us. We can do everything she has been talking about. Thank you, senator Gillibrand.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/sen-kirsten-gillibrand-health-care-made-democratic-party-47276927
Gillibrand sat down with the co-hosts of the " The View" to discuss how health care can be improved, the Democratic Party, women's role in government and more. New York senator Kirsten Gillibrand has been one of the loudest and most outspoken critics of the new administration. You know, I don't even know what to say. Except for, please welcome the fabulous and very forward thinking, senator Kirsten Gillibrand. Here's my question. So as you know with all bill that is come out, there is always something that we can tweak and make better. What was wrong with what they call Obamacare, and what could we have done just to tweak it to make it better for folks in your opinion? As I have traveled around upstate New York, some of the things they loved was covering kids, making sure you get coverage for pre-existing conditions, not getting charged because you're a woman. Not getting dropped the day you're pregnant. Those really matter. But the issue is it's too expensive. For a middle-class family, it's taking too much of their income, for a small business. You could have a not for profit public income you can buy into. Like medicare. It would be there for you, and create competition in the system. It would not have that fat profit that is mandatory for any other for-profit company, and you have something less expensive that covers most things.( Do you think that will happen? You should fight for it. Yes. We should absolutely fight for medicare. It would make a huge difference, I think, to many new yorkers who just want to have basic care, and they can't afford what's being offered. You know, women stand a lot to lose here as you mentioned, but when you look at the photo of the people that are deciding, and working on this bill, look at the 13 senators. They are all men. Do any of them have -- All men, all Republicans. Do any of them have female genitalia? Are we missing something? White men. Does that concern you when you see that? It does. It does, because women do have a lot to lose. We were discriminated against without Obamacare. We were charged more. Being a mom was considered a pre-existing condition for some people. The fact we would be charged more because we're women, and we might get pregnant, and when we are pregnant, that was considered a pre-existing condition. We have a lot to lose, and it's offensive, and it's troubling. How does that happen though? People vote for it. It's one of the reasons why I started a political action committee asking women to run for office, and asking other women to support them, asking women to be heard and have mored a Vo Kats. If you had 51% of women in congress, we wouldn't be debating whether we should have access to contraception or be charged for health care, or whether we should have a national paid leave plan. All the issues, women would understand they are fundamental to our economy. They are fundamental to families, and we wouldn't have to fight so hard for these basic rights. We are fighting, and congresswomen all over the place are getting a lot of flak, with congressman reed, I think in Idaho. Pretty much everywhere. Let's look at the tape and see what happened there. You are mandating people on medicaid, except dying. No. That line is so indefensible. Nobody dies because they don't have access to health care. Okay. First of all -- All right, y'all. It's all right. Some people said he was talking about emergency rooms. A lot of people die there too, by the way. A lot of people interpreted that as a sweeping generalization. Few don't have access to medical treatment, you're not going to soo survive. I know a man who was a healthy business owner, and he had a horrible infection in his heart. Emergency open heart surgery, and without health care, he wouldn't have been able to afford it, and he would die if he didn't have access to keep him alive. How do people get away with making stupid statements? I don't think we are. The grassroots is making a huge difference in this country. They pushed back on trumpcare, and they will doo it again, and what has been offer second-degree so harmful and toxic to so many people, and people say, it won't happen to my family. I want my kids covered. It will not pass in the senate. It will not. It will not. Hillary Clinton is back in the news again. She did an event, and the way she answered some of the questions, people felt she was reluctant to take personal responsibility. I was one of the people that felt that way for the loss in the election, heavily blaming Comey and Russia. Her presentation in this way, does this help or hurt the party? Because I think people are looking for her to say, we didn't do proper groundwork, and we're making changes. The democratic party is fixing this for next time, and she is not giving it to them. I don't think it's about the party. I think it's about the people. And I have been traveling all across my state, and what Democrats need to do to win is listen a lot more, and work harder to represent the people, and they need know we're fighting for them, but I think what's happening today is really remarkable. How many people were at the women's March? How many people marched? I marched. It was an extraordinary moment your nation's history. People marched all over the globe. Men, women, and children. Whether it was women's reproductive freedom, black lives matter, or clean air, clean water, and it was an intersectional moment and intersectional March, and what's happening now is the grassroots is driving the solutions. You won't find the answers from Washington, or one leader. It's going to be regular people standing up, demanding what's right, fighting for what they believe in, and that is the future of democratic politics and all politics. You just said that beautifully though, but I think -- do you think it would be beneficial for when she is asked those kinds of questions? People see her as a leader in the party, and many people were excited for her to win, and they want acknowledgment. She said it. What do you want her to do? I think Hillary Clinton has done an extraordinary thing. She has continued to inspire women and girls around the globe to want to lead. So actually stand up, and Emily's list has confirmed it. 11,000 women have called them up and said, I want to run. I want you to train me. What she has done, it's done something hard to put yourself out there, and run for president and fight for something she believes in. She has created this role model for all of us, that all of our voices matter, and each one of us has a role the play. We can fight the fight that matters most to us, and I'm grateful for her leadership. It's up to us. It's up to us to take the baton. We have to fight the next fight. You know, that's why we love her. And we're going to talk some
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/video/lady-michelle-obama-congratulates-class-2017-graduates-47275173
Michelle Obama delivers inspiring message to 2017 graduates, saying, " Barack and I are so proud of you." All the students in this graduation series and across the country I want to congratulate you for reaching higher to get educational need for the life you wanna live. Or rock and I are so proud of you. It's all the young people out there who were still figuring out your next steps. I want to encourage you to keep working as hard as you can into empower yourself through higher education. And then get out there and use that education to get back to your family your community and your country. Thanks so much and congratulations again to the class of 2017.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/court-hearing-travel-ban-focuses-trumps-words-constitution/story?id=47286488
Play Manuel Balce Ceneta/ AP Photo WATCH Trump administration defends travel ban, saying barring Muslims is not intent President Trump's order limiting travel from some Middle Eastern and African countries is intended to protect the U. S. against terrorists -- not ban Muslims, the Trump administration argued in a federal appeals court hearing Monday. The two-hour hearing before the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals in Virginia on Monday focused primarily on two questions: should the words of Trump, both as candidate and president, be considered in determining if the travel ban is intended to discriminate against Muslims? The court is considering the Trump administration's appeal of a ruling by a federal judge in Maryland on March 15 that put a nationwide preliminary injunction on one section of the president's revised travel ban that bars entry of nationals from six Muslim-majority countries for 90 days, with exceptions for U. S. permanent residents, valid visa holders and certain others. Acting Solicitor General Jeffrey Wall argued that the order was intended only to pause travel to allow an examination of vetting procedures. He said the administration is not discriminating against any religion and has no intent to discriminate. “ The president made clear what he was talking about is threat of terrorists," Wall told the court. " He made clear he wasn’t talking about Muslims." Wall added that Trump’s statements should be read “in a way that is not most hostile to the president.” The American Civil Liberties Union's lawyer, Omar Jadwat, countered that the president has shown “animus” towards Muslims in his statements. He pointed to a past statement on Trump's website that calls for a total and complete shutdown on Muslims entering the U. S., which has since been removed. Jadwat also argued that such a multi-country travel ban is unprecedented and that the revised order violates the Establishment Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits favoring one religion over another. The hearing marked the first time that a legal challenge to the revised executive order has reached a court of appeals after being blocked by two federal judges in March. In an extremely rare occurrence for the Fourth Circuit -- which covers Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia -- a panel of all 13 active and eligible judges heard the lawyers' arguments. Such an "en banc" hearing is granted only when a majority of active judges determine that the proceedings involve a question of exceptional importance or when uniformity of the court's decisions is needed.
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/timeline-sally-yates-warnings-white-house-mike-flynn/story?id=47272979
Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general fired by President Donald Trump in January, testified in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee today, recounting a timeline of her warnings about former national security adviser Mike Flynn to the Trump administration. Yates said she conveyed her concerns about Flynn to White House Counsel Don Mc Gahn over the course of two in-person meetings at the White House. Here’s a timeline of Yates and Mc Gahn’s meetings and what they discussed, according to Yates’ testimony today: Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn was interviewed at the White House by the FBI. During their first in-person meeting, Yates told Mc Gahn, Trump’s top legal adviser, about Flynn’s interview with the FBI. The Department of Justice received a detailed readout from the FBI agents who had interviewed Flynn. Yates said she felt “it was important to get this information to the White House as quickly as possible.” Yates called Mc Gahn first thing that morning to tell him she had “a very sensitive matter" that had to be discussed face to face. Mc Gahn agreed to meet with Yates later that afternoon. Later that day, Yates traveled to the White House along with a senior member of the DOJ’s National Security Division, who was overseeing the matter. It was Yates’ first meeting with Mc Gahn in his office, which also acts as a sensitive compartmented information facility ( SCIF). Yates said she began their meeting by laying out the press accounts and statements made by Vice President Mike Pence and other high-ranking White House officials about Flynn’s conduct “that we knew not to be the truth.” She told Mc Gahn how the DOJ acquired that information and walked through Flynn’s conduct "in a fair amount of detail.” She explained to Mc Gahn the reasons why the DOJ was informing the White House of this -- Flynn’s conduct was “problematic in and of itself,” they believed Pence was entitled to know the information about Flynn he was spreading “wasn’t true,” and that the American people had been misled about Flynn’s actions. Yates stressed that one of the reasons why the DOJ decided to notify Mc Gahn was because the Russians were aware of Flynn’s conduct, including that Flynn had misled Pence and that she had not accused Pence of “knowingly providing false information to the American people.” “ This was a problem because not only did we believe that the Russians knew this, but that they likely had proof of this information,” Yates said during her testimony today. “ And that created a compromise situation, a situation where the national security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians.” Yates and the DOJ official presented all the information to Mc Gahn so the White House could take action that they deemed appropriate. Yates explained today that the DOJ felt it was matter of urgency that they inform the White House. She stated bluntly in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee: “ We felt like it was critical that we get this information to the White House in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public and because we believed that General Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians.” She said they had explored whether the decision to inform the White House “might impact that ongoing investigation” being conducted by the FBI, but that once Flynn had been interviewed, their concerns were mitigated. And each time that White House officials repeated misrepresentations of Flynn’s actions, Yates argued it “increased the compromise.” “ To state the obvious, you don’t want your national security adviser compromised with the Russians,” Yates told the committee. “ Certainly leading up to our notification on the 26th, it was a topic of a whole lot of discussion in DOJ and with other members of the intel community,” Yates said today during her testimony. According to White House press secretary Sean Spicer, Mc Gahn briefed Trump immediately following his meeting with Yates. Yates told the committee today that Mc Gahn never mentioned to her that he briefed the president; instead she found out through media reports. Yates’ second in-person meeting with Mc Gahn happened the next day. Mc Gahn called Yates in the morning and asked if she could come back to his office, and she returned that afternoon. One of the topics discussed was whether Flynn could be prosecuted for his conduct. One of the questions Mc Gahn asked Flynn was, “ Why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another?” She explained that it “was a whole lot more than that,” and reviewed the same concerns they had outlined on Jan. 26. Mc Gahn expressed his concern that taking action might interfere with the FBI investigation of Flynn, and Yates said it wouldn’t. “ It wouldn’t really be fair of us to tell you this and then expect you to sit on your hands,” Yates had told Mc Gahn. Mc Gahn asked if he could look at the underlying evidence of Flynn’s conduct, and she said they would work with the FBI over the weekend and “get back with him on Monday morning.” Yates called Mc Gahn “first thing Monday morning” to tell him he would be allowed to “come over and review the underlying evidence.” She didn’t hear back from him until that afternoon. However, she said she doesn’t know whether Mc Gahn or anyone from his office came to look at the material “because that was my last day with DOJ.” Yates left her post with the DOJ that day because Trump fired her after she ordered the Justice Department not to defend Trump’s Jan. 27 executive order. Yates thought Trump’s executive order that temporarily banned immigration from seven countries with predominantly Muslim populations and barred refugees from entering the U. S. was unlawful. Pence first heard that Flynn misled him about his contact with Russian Ambassador to the U. S. Sergey Kislyak, according to White House officials, two full weeks after Yates first met with Mc Gahn. Eighteen days after Yates raised the concern about Flynn to the White House, Flynn resigned from his post as national security adviser, pushed out by Trump. When asked whether Flynn might have been compromised during the 18-day period he remained national security advisor, Yates said she doesn’t have an answer for that, but that she was “really concerned about the compromise here.” “ That was the reason why we were encouraging them to act,” Yates said. “ I don’t know what steps they may have taken, if any, during that 18 days to minimize any risk.”
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/white-house-correspondents-dinner/
The annual glitzy White House Correspondents Dinner went on Saturday night, without President Trump, White House aides and even many of the marquee parties being canceled.  The night's headliner, Hasan Minhaj of " The Daily Show" on TV's Comedy Central, roasted Mr. Trump -- and the press -- during his time on stage, despite saying he had been told not to.  Trump: " I will not be happy" if North Korea conducts another nuclear test" We've got to address the elephant that's not in the room," he cracked. " The leader of our country is not here. And that's because he lives in Moscow. It's a very long flight. As for the other guy, I think he's in Pennsylvania because he can't take a joke." At a rally of his supporters in Harrisburg, Pa., Trump railed against the "fake news" media. Trump called out the White House Correspondents Dinn... Bob Woodward, the legendary Washington Post reporter who broke the Watergate scandal, urged journalists to pursue truth aggressively, whether "revered" or "reviled." Woodward made the comments moments after President Trump, who skipped the dinner to hold a rally in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, spent much of his own speech watch-live-president-trump-rally-speech-in-pennsylvania Edit Unlink ">watch-live-president-trump-rally-speech-in-pennsylvania Edit Unlink ">watch-live-president-trump-rally-speech-in-pennsylvania Edit Unlink ">watch-live-president-trump-rally-speech-in-pennsylvania Edit Unlink ">disparaging outlets like MSNBC and CNN as "fake news" and untrustworthy. Mr. Trump said he was happy to be with "much better people" than Washington press corps.  Woodward addressed Trump's habit of calling reporters "fake news" directly, in an evening that focused on the value of the First Amendment, free speech and the freedom of the press. " Mr. President, the media is not fake news," Woodward said, to applause. At the White House Correspondent Dinner, comedian Hasan Minhaj tells his audience of journalists they now know what it is like to be a minority. But Woodward suggested that no matter how the press is treated, reporters should do their jobs diligently — particularly when opinion polls show most Americans distrust the media. " This is no time for self-satisfaction or smugness," Woodward said, urging reporters to "not have a dog in the political fight except to find that best attainable version of the truth." Minhaj, meanwhile, make jokes about outlets like MSNBC and CNN, but ultimately called on reporters to work diligently with Mr. Trump in the White House. After all, reporters have to work twice as hard with half the credit, he said. " Now you know what it feels like to be a minority," Minhaj joked.  Minhaj also joked about Mr. Trump's 3 a.m. tweets, saying that since Mr. Trump doesn't drink, every tweet he posts is sent sober.  Minhaj ending by saying "only in America" can a first-generation Indian- American, Muslim kid get on stage and roast the president of the United States. That, he said, shows, "even the president is not beyond the reach of the First Amendment." CBSN Originals recently returned to Erie, Pennsylvania to reconnect with locals who hoped a fresh approach in Washington would bring about change in their struggling home town. Airing on May 21 at 8 p.m. EST, " America | Redefining Hope" looks at how that hope has evolved. Just before President Trump's inauguration, Jamie Yuccas went to Erie, Pennsylvania, to speak to his supporters. Now, 100 days into his presidenc...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-i-will-not-be-happy-if-north-korea-conducts-another-nuclear-test/
Face the Nation April 16, 2017 transcript: Mc Cullough, Chiefs of Staff and a Look at Faith in America President Donald Trump said Saturday he "will not be happy" if North Korea conducts another nuclear test, and he declined to rule out a U. S. military response to such a provocation." I don't know. I mean, we'll see," Mr. Trump said of possible military action during an interview with CBS News' John Dickerson that will air Sunday on " Face the Nation" and Monday on " CBS This Morning." The interview came just one day after North Korea test-launched a ballistic missile Friday from the western portion of the country. The launch, which failed shortly after lift-off, came after recent U. S. pressure on North Korea to cease its provocative behavior." Mr. President, you and the administration said to North Korea, ' Don't test a missile.' They have tested a missile. Is the pressure not working?" Dickerson asked Mr. Trump." Well, I didn't say, ' Don't test a missile,'" the president began. " He's going to have to do what he has to do. But he understands we're not going to be very happy. And I will tell you, a man that I've gotten to like and respect -- the president of China, President Xi -- I believe has been putting pressure on him also. But so far, perhaps nothing's happened and perhaps it has. This was a small missile. This was not a big missile. This was not a nuclear test, which he was expected to do three days ago. We'll see what happens." Dickerson followed up, " You say, ' Not happy' -- what does that mean?"" I would not be happy," Mr. Trump repeated. " If he does a nuclear test, I will not be happy. And I can tell you also, I don't believe that the president of China, who is a very respected man, will be happy either.""' Not happy' mean military action?" Dickerson asked. " I don't know," the president responded. " I mean, we'll see." Make sure you tune into " Face the Nation" this Sunday for the first part of  John Dickerson's interview with President Trump, taping at the White House and in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on Saturday, April 29th, Mr. Trump's 100th day in office. More of the interview will air in a live broadcast of " CBS This Morning" from the East Room of the White House on Monday, May 1. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/are-twitter-users-tuning-out-president-donald-trump/
U. S. President Donald Trump delivers the keynote address at the U. S. Holocaust Memorial Museum's " Days of Remembrance" ceremony in the Since President Donald Trump took office in January, the average number of Twitter users engaging with his tweets -- liking, retweeting or replying to his 140-character bursts  -- has dropped by about two-thirds, according to a new study from digital agency Huge Inc. At the beginning of the administration, an average tweet from the president generated roughly 206,000 engagements. Now, his average tweet generates only about 71,000 engagements – a drop of 66 percent during Mr. Trump's first 100 days. President Trump took to Twitter Sunday morning to wish Americans a happy Easter, and he also responded to nationwide demonstrations calling for t... Engagement with the president's tweets began steadily dropping about three weeks into his presidency. Since then, engagement has been on a slow but steady decline, even as the president's total number of followers has increased by roughly 40 percent. The study classified tweets according to a number of characteristics like time of publication, cadence, and voice. The study's authors then compared similar tweets across time. The president's tweetstorm on the morning of January 30 about a judge blocking his administration's travel ban, for example, was compared with a tweetstorm the morning of April 27 about border security and government funding. The study observed a distinction between some of the more "agitated" tweets Trump sent -- those with a more strident tone, lots of capitalization and exclamation marks -- and tweets that were more likely "prepared" by his staff, incorporating more social media conventions like hashtags and emojis. The authors found that the number of "prepared" tweets has steadily risen. At the outset of his administration, they comprised only 15 percent of his overall feed. Now, they account for 27 percent of his Twitter output. President Trump has been in office for 100 days and his administration is touting his achievements while also downplaying the significance of the... The study suggested the increased frequency of "prepared" tweets from @real Donald Trump may be undermining his viral reach. " In social media, nothing alienates a core audience faster than an inauthentic voice," the authors wrote. " Watering down the president's Twitter account with static and predictable prepared tweets has chipped away at its authenticity, giving its fans and followers license to look away." The authors added, however, that an overall decrease in the frequency of Mr. Trump's tweets might explain some of the drop in engagement: " Early in his term, Trump sent out more than 40 tweets per week, very close to the frequency on his account in the weeks leading up to the inauguration. However, after a month in office, his activity quieted somewhat, which would naturally contribute to fewer total engagements." In other news on the president's social media presence, Twitter crunched some numbers this week to generate a list of the president's most frequently used words, hashtags, and user handles on the platform during his first 100 days in office. Below are the results. Most-tweeted words Great America/ American News/ Media Jobs Today Fake News Thank People Big Country Most-tweeted handles@ Whitehouse@ NYTimes & @foxandfriends (tie)@ Fox News@ VP@ CNN & @ POTUS (tie) Most-tweeted Hashtags# MAGA# America First# ICYMI# USA# Obamacare Make sure you tune into " Face the Nation" this Sunday for the first part of  John Dickerson's interview with President Trump, taping at the White House and in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on Saturday, April 29th, Mr. Trump's 100th day in office. More of the interview will air in a live broadcast of " CBS This Morning" from the East Room of the White House on Monday, May 1. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/watch-live-president-trump-rally-speech-in-pennsylvania/
President Trump made assailing the Washington, D. C., media a central theme of his roughly one-hour speech Saturday night at a rally in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, marking the end of his first 100 days in office. " As you may know, there's another big gathering taking place tonight in Washington, D. C., did you hear about it?" Mr. Trump said, as the crowd supported his statement with boos directed at the media. " A large group of Hollywood actors and Washington media are consoling each other in a hotel ballroom in our nation's capital right now." Trump's first 100 days: High in executive orders, low in approval ratings 100 days: A brief history of a presidential benchmark  How Trump's first 100 days compare to past presidents " They are gathered together for the White House Correspondents Dinner without the president," Mr. Trump continued. " And I could not possibly be more thrilled than to be more than 100 miles away from Washington's swamp, spending my evening with all of you and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people, right?" Mr. Trump said the media are a "disgrace," and deserve a big "failing" grade for their performance covering his administration thus far. The president said the press has portrayed his presidency in almost an entirely negative light. Specifically, Mr. Trump disparaged MSNBC and CNN as "fake news," before attacking the "failing" New York Times. Mr. Trump called the newspaper's staffers "incompetent, dishonest people." Mr. Trump made comments about the media through his speech, saying his first 100 days has "exhausted" the Washington press corps. Trump brought back one of this campaign trail favorites, a poem called " The Snake." The poem tells the story of a woman who takes in a snake, who... But Mr. Trump didn't only have criticism for the media, also assailing Democrats in Congress and even seemingly threatening Republicans. The president emphasized that would be very "mad" at members of Congress if they didn't repeal and replace Obamacare, and soon. Pennsylvania was a key win for Mr. Trump, helping propel him to victory with its 20 electoral college votes. Mr. Trump held a victory rally in the state after his Election Night win. The president's speech was marked by a couple bizarre moments, such as when Mr. Trump stopped in the middle of his remarks to point out someone apparently holding a " Blacks For Trump" sign. " Thank you for that sign — Blacks for Trump — I love that guy," the president said. " Thank you, man. That's really great. I really appreciate it." Eventually, Mr. Trump began addressing his purported accomplishments throughout the first few months of his administration, such as an increased focus on the safety of law enforcement and border security. Trump says the U. S. is imposing immigration control like "never seen before." Trump said "we will build the wall," and then railed against the MS... Mr. Trump reiterated that the border wall will be built, amid skepticism and the fight in Congress for funding the border wall. " Go home, go to sleep, rest assured," Mr. Trump said. Mr. Trump reiterated themes of being tough on immigration, crime and "radical Islamic terrorists," he said to cheers." We are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country," he said. Vice President Pence introduced President Trump at a rally to mark their first 100 days in office. Pence touted Trump's foreign policy achievemen... " Together, we will make America strong again," Mr. Trump concluded his speech. " We will make America wealthy again. We will make America prosper again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again." Mr. Trump has decried the 100-day standard as "ridiculous" even as the White House created a site trumpeting his purported successes in that amount of time.  Host of CBS News' " Face The Nation" John Dickerson spoke  Mr. Trump earlier Saturday at the White House for an exclusive interview that will appear Sunday on " Face The Nation" and Monday on " CBS This Morning." Trump says the U. S. is imposing immigration control like "never seen before." Trump said "we will build the wall," and then railed against the MS... Follow our blog from earlier below. 8:48 p.m. Trump ends his speech after roughly one hour on stage. 8:43 p.m. Mr. Trump said he would be very "mad" at members of Congress, including a couple of the members present in the audience, if they didn't pass Obamacare repeal and replacement quickly. 8:33 p.m. " We are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country," Mr. Trump said. 8:29 p.m.  Mr. Trump decried the spread of "transnational gangs" into "all 50 states," honing in on MS-13." My administration will not rest until we have dismantled these violent gangs, and we're doing it rapidly," and sending them back to their countries, he said. 8:26 p.m. Mr. Trump touted a new office for victims of immigration-related crime. " We need safety, We need cameras," Mr. Trump said, adding, " We need the wall." Mr. Trump reiterated that the border wall will be built, amid skepticism and the fight for border wall funding in Congress. " Go home, go to sleep, rest assured," he said. 8:23 p.m. Mr. Trump said the U. S. is imposing immigration control like you've "never seen before."8:21 p.m. The president says a lot of people on his staff aren't happy about post- White House lobbying restrictions, but says that's " OK."" It is time to drain the swamp," Mr. Trump said. 8:15 p.m. Mr. Trump said that if he can't get a good deal for workers on NAFTA, he will terminate it. 8:11: Mr. Trump stopped his speech to point to a man apparently holding a " Blacks for Trump" sign, saying he appreciates the support. " Thank you for that sign. ' Blacks for Trump.' I love that guy," Trump says. " Thank you man. That's really great. I really appreciate it."8:10 p.m. Mr. Trump, pointing to the media said "those people" are "exhausted" from the business of his first 100 days." We are eradicating the criminals and cartels that have infiltrated our country," Mr. Trump said, listing some of his work so far. 8:07 p.m. Mr. Trump acknowledges that China has manipulated its currency, but that the country may help with the situation in North Korea." I believe he wants to get that situation taken care of," he said of Chinese president Xi Jinping.  Again, Mr. Trump criticized the media for pointing out that Mr. Trump reversed course on calling China a currency manipulator. " You understand," he told the audience, about the reason for his seeming course reversal on China. 8:06 p.m. " We are not going to let other countries take advantage of us anymore," Mr. Trump said, saying from now on, the policy will be " America first. 8 p.m. Trump goes off on a rant about the "failing" New York Times, discussing the company's real estate history. He decries the NYT's "nasty" op-eds telling him how to run the country.  Mr. Trump called NYT staffers, "incompetent, dishonest people." Mr. Trump said the media deserves a big fat "failing" grade.7:54 p.m. Mr. Trump called the media a "disgrace," supported by loud boos from the audience." As you may know, there's another big gathering taking place tonight in Washington, D. C., did you hear about it?" Mr. Trump said. " A large group of Hollywood actors and Washington media are consoling each other in a hotel ballroom in our nation's capital right now. They are gathered together for the White House Correspondents Dinner without the president. And I could not possibly be more thrilled than to be more than 100 miles away from Washington's swamp, spending my evening with all of you and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people, right?"7:49 p.m. Mr. Trump walks on stage, amid cheers and people clamoring to capture the moment on their phones. 7:48 p.m. " He's putting Iran on notice," Pence said of the president, adding that he's standing strong in regards to North Korea. " Thanks to president Donald Trump, ISIS is on the run" in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, Pence said. 7:45 p.m. Chants of "build the wall, build the wall" break out after Pence says the president is keeping his commitment to tough immigration policies. 7:42 p.m. Chants of " U. S. A., U. S. A" break out after Pence announces Mr. Trump's latest executive order on trade, signed in Pennsylvania Saturday night.  Pence says Mr. Trump will not relent until Obamacare is repealed and replaced. He adds that more than "500,000 jobs" have been created since the beginning of the year in America. 7:39 p.m. Vice President Mike Pence takes the stage, saying, " Hello, Pennsylvania!" CBSN Originals recently returned to Erie, Pennsylvania to reconnect with locals who hoped a fresh approach in Washington would bring about change in their struggling home town. Airing on May 21 at 8 p.m. EST, " America | Redefining Hope" looks at how that hope has evolved. Just before President Trump's inauguration, Jamie Yuccas went to Erie, Pennsylvania, to speak to his supporters. Now, 100 days into his presidenc... Fancy living somewhere with low taxes, affordable real estate and a reasonable cost of living? Read on
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/cbs-this-morning-white-house-live-broadcast/
" CBS This Morning" is broadcasting live from the White House Monday, May 1, for an inside look at President Trump's first 100 days in office -- and what his administration is looking to accomplish in the months ahead. Not only will the show feature Mr. Trump's interview with CBS News chief Washington correspondent John Dickerson, debuting Sunday on " Face the Nation," but members of the Trump administration will also sit down at the table with " CBS This Morning" co-hosts Charlie Rose, Gayle King and Norah O' Donnell in the East Room.  According to " CBS This Morning" executive producer Ryan Kadro, the show hopes to illuminate how the Trump administration is addressing pressing domestic and foreign policy issues." The goal is to really come away with an understanding of what they're trying to do, how they're trying to govern, what they want to achieve, how they're going about it, so I think there's a lot of questions," Kadro said on the " CBS This Morning" podcast. Among the wide range of topics, Kadro said expect discussions on North Korea, the economy, tax reform and whether the GOP health care bill will pass. Tune in 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. ET, Monday, May 1 on CBS.  To learn more about the making of this broadcast, listen to the " CBS This Morning" podcast interview with Ryan Kadro. In the last seven years, the company has outperformed Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google, with its stock going from $9 a share to over $180 today Born in South Carolina, Marcus King was brought up on the blues, performing with his bluesman father, Marvin. Last year the band released their critically acclaimed second album produced by Warren Haynes of The Allman Brothers
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/barron-trump-takes-social-media-by-storm-in-100-days-of-trump-presidency/
U. S. President Donald Trump speaks as U. S. first lady Melania Trump and their son Barron listen at the 139th annual White House Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, U. S., April 17, 2017. On the 100th day of his presidency, President Donald Trump has already solidified his place in history as one of the more unconventional presidents, using social media unlike any of his Oval Office predecessors. But while the tweeter-in-chief takes to social media to provide his own running commentary on hot button topics facing the American public, data findings by Social Flow, a publishing optimization platform, show it's the youngest Trump that has captured America's hearts and minds. Social Flow compiled data after running an exhaustive search on major social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and Linked In, including content that ran through their own site to those platforms from over 300 major media companies. Barron, the son of the president and first lady Melania Trump, was the target of a rash of social media mockery after he appeared at Mr. Trump's January inauguration. The 11-year-old Trump was immediately defended by people from both sides of the aisle, including Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Former first daughter Chelsea Clinton spoke out in defense of Donald Trump's youngest son, Barron Trump, while also criticizing his father's poli... Using a mathematical algorithm, Social Flow looked at the most-clicked articles about Trump since he was sworn in. The company found that stories defending Barron's right to privacy were by far the most-read stories of the top 500 stories from the first 99 days of Trump's presidency. Social Flow CEO Jim Anderson tells CBS News that Americans' reactions to coverage of Barron appeared to be enormously encouraging." At a time when so much seems to divide our country, this is one example of how people from all parts of the spectrum share a common value: keep the children out of it," said Anderson. " And if we can find one common shared value, it's a good bet there are others." Immigration-focused stories were also found to be widely popular in reach and engagement of social media users from a mix of both pro- Trump supporters and his opponents. " Immigration is a topic that is incredibly important to Americans on both sides of the issue. Whether you believe that immigration is a core part of what has made America great, or a critical threat to our continued safety and prosperity -- the emotions are high," added Anderson. The reversal on Mr. Trump's temporary travel ban by a federal judge was the most-shared story, with more than 116,000 shares, according to Social Flow. As President Trump nears his 100th day in office, the administration is selling its accomplishments, despite setbacks on immigration and border s... " When then-candidate Trump proposed in December 2015 a ban on Muslims entering the country, our data showed that it eclipsed all other topics in the campaign at the time. At that point, he was the most talked about person on the planet, and we had to stop comparing him to other political candidates and start comparing him to the kind of attention generated by celebrities," noted Anderson. A surprising finding? Issues like the chemical weapons attack in Syria, the ongoing tensions in North Korea and even Mr. Trump's refusal to turn over his tax returns barely made the meter move in terms of social media engagement." The most surprising part was what wasn't there. We didn't see nearly as much engagement on stories about Russia, health care, the border wall, or tax returns or even FBI Director Comey," said Anderson. When Mr. Trump proudly announced he would not attend the White House Correspondents Dinner, jokes at the expense of the president were the second most-retweeted items and third most-popular in terms of engagement. I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) February 25, 2017 " Satire has of course long been popular in politics, so the popularity of satire pieces isn't surprising. What's interesting is how much more accessible the satire is. You don't have to buy a newspaper to see a political cartoon, or stay up until 11:30 p.m. to see a comedian's take -- the satire comes right to you in your social feed, often in small digestible chunks that are easy to like and share with your friends," noted Anderson. Social Flow found that while the level of media coverage and public consumption has remained relatively flat since the inauguration, any drop-off in interest has been buoyed by the fact people, both supporters and opponents, are looking to read about just what Mr. Trump is really doing in the White House. " We saw during the campaign that candidate Trump was a master at generating attention. Now of course as President Trump, he has an even bigger platform," Anderson said. Anderson adds, " His ability to generate attention has remained high, and he has shown a willingness to consistently use that platform in a way that no other president ever has." CBSN Originals recently returned to Erie, Pennsylvania to reconnect with locals who hoped a fresh approach in Washington would bring about change in their struggling home town. Airing on May 21 at 8 p.m. EST, " America | Redefining Hope" looks at how that hope has evolved. Just before President Trump's inauguration, Jamie Yuccas went to Erie, Pennsylvania, to speak to his supporters. Now, 100 days into his presidenc...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-focuses-on-first-100-day-successes-triumphs-in-weekly-address/
In his weekly address to the American people, President Donald Trump focused on the triumphs and successes his administration has made in its first 100 days in office. " I truly believe that the first 100 days of my administration has been just about the most successful in our country's history," said Mr. Trump. However, Mr. Trump has failed to achieve many of the goals he set out during the campaign. Of 38 specific promises Trump made in his 100-day "contract" with voters, he has accomplished 10, mostly through executive orders that don't require legislation. None of the 10 pieces of legislation he promised to sign have been passed by Congress, and most have not been introduced. In his weekly address, the president went on to say that "in just 14 weeks, my administration has brought profound change to Washington, the most fundamental change can be found in the relationship between the people and their government." From his first day in office, Mr. Trump said,  " I have governed by a simple idea, my only allegiance is to you, our wonderful citizens." He added, " Together we are seeing that great achievements are possible when we put the American people first." The president noted he was the first president in modern political era to confirm a Supreme Court Justice in his first 100 days with the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch early April. " The last time it happened was 136 years ago in 1881," said Mr. Trump. President Trump says his tax plan is going to put people back to work, but some important details were missing from the one-page blueprint that c... Mr. Trump hailed the auto industry as an economic success, saying car companies have come  "roaring back" to the United States and that the country is "going up and it's going up fast." The president also touched on the recent unveiling of his tax-cut plan, one Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin called "the biggest tax cut ever," saying it will have an enormous effect for the middle class and for American businesses. Experts have cast doubt on Mnuchin's claim of the Trump plan representing the largest tax cut in U. S. history, pointing to the 1981 tax cuts under President Ronald Reagan and the extension of the Bush tax cuts under President Barack Obama in 2010. Mr. Trump ended his speech by saying he was focused on the renewal of the American spirit, adding "as long a we always have faith in each other and trust in God, then the sun will always shine on our very glorious republic."  CBSN Originals recently returned to Erie, Pennsylvania to reconnect with locals who hoped a fresh approach in Washington would bring about change in their struggling home town. Airing on May 21 at 8 p.m. EST, " America | Redefining Hope" looks at how that hope has evolved. Just before President Trump's inauguration, Jamie Yuccas went to Erie, Pennsylvania, to speak to his supporters. Now, 100 days into his presidenc...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/charmaine-yoest-anti-abortion-leader-named-to-senior-position-at-department-of-health-and-human-services/
NEW YORK -- The White House says President Donald Trump is appointing the former president of a leading anti-abortion organization to a senior position at the Department of Health and Human Services.  Charmaine Yoest, who actively supported Trump in his campaign, will serve as assistant secretary of public affairs at HHS. From 2008 until February 2016, she was president of Americans United for Life, which campaigned at the federal and state level for tough restrictions on abortion.  White House cuts aid to major U. N. abortion-related agency Among the many state bills backed by the group under Yoest's leadership were measures that would ban most abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, require women seeking abortions to undergo a sonogram and impose tough regulations on abortion clinics that could lead to their closure. The appointment was assailed by abortion-rights groups. " Charmaine Yoest has spent her whole professional life opposing access to birth control and a woman's right to a safe, legal abortion," said Dawn Laguens, executive vice president of Planned Parenthood. " While President Trump claims to empower women, he is appointing government officials who believe just the opposite." Anti-abortion leader Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, praised Yoest as "one of the pro-life movement's most articulate and powerful communicators." Dannenfelser also noted that Yoest - in a sign of the ideological shift taking place in Washington - will be replacing Kevin Griffis, who joined Planned Parenthood earlier this month as vice president of communications. Many anti-abortion leaders, including Yoest, were initially cautious about Trump's bid for the presidency, but became staunch supporters after he pledged to support several of their key goals. These included a federal 20-week abortion ban, a halt to federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and appointment of Supreme Court justices who would be open to overturning Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that established a constitutional right to abortion. Yoest began her career serving under Ronald Reagan in the Office of Presidential Personnel and was an adviser to former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's 2008 presidential campaign. Most recently she has served as a senior fellow at American Values, a conservative group in Washington.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-signs-short-term-bill-to-avoid-government-shutdown/
A government shutdown was avoided Friday when President Trump signed a short-term funding bill to keep the government running through next week. Trump signed the continuing resolution in private Friday night after he returned to the White House from a daytrip to Atlanta. President Trump blasted Democrats in a series of tweets over the potential for a government shutdown as today's deadline looms. USA Today's Eliza... The temporary spending bill keeps the government functioning through next Friday, May 6. It buys lawmakers time to wrap up negotiations on a larger, $1 trillion package to fund government operations through Sept. 30, the end of the government's 2017 budget year. Both houses of Congress passed the weeklong measure with hours to spare before Friday's midnight deadline for some government operations to begin shutting down. Negotiators overcame two major obstacles this week to reach an agreement on the omnibus when the White House conceded that the administration doesn't need funding for the border wall yet and dropped its threat to halt Obamacare payments. House Democrats on Thursday threatened to oppose a spending bill if House Republicans decided to hold a floor vote on their revised health care bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, but GOP leaders decided late Thursday to instead delay the vote. Republicans spent the day lobbying undecided lawmakers and those who are against the new version. If Congress is able to pass a bill to keep the government funded through the end of the fiscal year, there likely will be another showdown in the fall. Lawmakers will likely have to strike a budget deal to lift spending caps put in place by a 2011 law and then find a way to address raising the debt ceiling.   CBSN Originals recently returned to Erie, Pennsylvania to reconnect with locals who hoped a fresh approach in Washington would bring about change in their struggling home town. Airing on May 21 at 8 p.m. EST, " America | Redefining Hope" looks at how that hope has evolved. Just before President Trump's inauguration, Jamie Yuccas went to Erie, Pennsylvania, to speak to his supporters. Now, 100 days into his presidenc...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-says-hell-pay-more-under-his-own-tax-plan/
President Trump in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Fri., March 24, 2017, during an announcement on the approval of a permit to build the Keystone XL pipeline, clearing the way for the $8 billion project. President Trump said he will pay more in taxes under the tax plan his administration released earlier this week after criticism that the tax plan will greatly help investors and wealthy business owners such as himself. " I will pay more than I pay right now," Mr. Trump said in a Fox News interview that aired Friday night.  Ahead of 100-day milestone, Trump says he's "disappointed" with congressional GOP 100 days: Sharp partisan divides mark Trump presidency - CBS News poll  Trump's 100-day economy: Few achievements so far That's because all the deductions under the proposed tax plan disappear, he said.  Earlier this week, White House Economic Council Director Gary Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin laid out the administration's skeleton plan for tax reform, which would lower the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent. While sparse on details, Mnuchin said it will "pay for itself with growth." While the Trump tax plan is supposed to close loopholes, the White House has not laid out any concrete proposals yet to do that. In fact, it will close down the alternative minimum tax, launched in the 1960s to ensure that rich people reliant on loopholes in the tax code actually paid their fair share. The White House wants to make changes to health care, taxes, and immigration before the end of the week. CBS News' Margaret Brennan explains on C... Mr. Trump, who gave the Fox News interview on the eve of his 100th day in office, said he has been "disappointed" in how Republicans have handled major issues like health care, but he has "confidence" in Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, in moderate Republicans and in the House Freedom Caucus.  " They never had to govern," he said of congressional Republicans. " All of the sudden, we're governing." Mr. Trump said he expects a health care vote "maybe next week sometime." As for what he believes is his biggest achiveement in the first 100 days, Mr. Trump noted his meetings with foreign dignitaries that lay the groundwork for future developments. " Now, you don't measure that in the first 100 days, but the foundations have been set in the first 100 days," Mr. Trump said of his meetings with foreign dignitaries, like Chinese President Xi Jinping.  Mr. Trump also made some interesting claims about his golfing activities, claiming that, " I couldn't care less about golf," despite having golf outings in 19 in his first 100 days.  " I'm not having fun," Mr. Trump said of his golf trips, claiming he only golfs to conduct business, such as meetings with foreign dignitaries. Mr. Trump dismissed claims that he is unpopular, saying his approval ratings are in the high 40s. But a CBS News poll released this week said 41 percent of voters approve of the job Mr. Trump has done so far.  CBSN Originals recently returned to Erie, Pennsylvania to reconnect with locals who hoped a fresh approach in Washington would bring about change in their struggling home town. Airing on May 21 at 8 p.m. EST, " America | Redefining Hope" looks at how that hope has evolved. Just before President Trump's inauguration, Jamie Yuccas went to Erie, Pennsylvania, to speak to his supporters. Now, 100 days into his presidenc...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/can-georgia-dedicated-liberal-women-turn-red-state-blue/
ATLANTA -- Georgia, where President Trump visited Friday, has voted Republican in the last six presidential elections. But there is a new movement to turn the red state blue, led by women speaking up for the first time. Jen Cox, a 46-year-old realtor and mother of four, suddenly found her political voice -- the liberal one she muted for years living in Cobb County, a suburb of Atlanta. The special election in Georgia's sixth congressional district is now headed to a runoff in June. The race has captured national attention, and b... " I was afraid that it would affect even perhaps my kids' relationships with their friends," Cox said. " We were all making a lot of assumptions that terrible things would happen if we came out as liberals." Now, the blues have "absolutely" outed themselves, Cox said.  She had never been politically active, but when women nationwide rallied in January to protest Mr. Trump's election, Cox and her daughter joined 60,000 demonstrators in downtown Atlanta.   Seven weeks ago, on Facebook, she launched Pave It Blue, a grassroots organization for frustrated progressive women like her.  The Women's March on Jan. 21, 2017. " Now, just over a month later, we're at almost 2,000. And again, all local women," Cox said. Pave It Blue's first goal is helping elect Jon Ossoff, a local Democrat running in a congressional runoff election in June. Karin Agard, a Bermuda native who became a U. S. citizen last month, said the effort is because of Mr. Trump." All of it is President Trump," Agard said. " I don't think they represent me or my family. And I need someone in office to create some balance and represent me." Jen Cox, who lives in a conservative suburb of Atlanta, has found her liberal voice. Cox says Mr. Trump's first 100 days have been anti-immigrant, anti-women and un- American.  " It's our responsibility to stand up to that, to speak out against it. If not us, who?" Cox said.  Pave It Blue's goal is to turn red districts to blue ones and to get women running for local office. And now that they found their voice, these liberal women say they are going to keep speaking up and speaking out. Mark Strassmann was named CBS News Transportation correspondent in August 2011. He has been a CBS News correspondent since January 2001, and is based in the Atlanta bureau. From the moment Jimmy White found out his daughter was pregnant, he decided to become a spoiling kind of grandpa 6-year-old Nate Butkus' " Show About Science" features eminent brains from around the world of science
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/how-many-executive-orders-has-trump-signed/
Since he took office on Jan. 20, President Trump has signed a total of 77 executive actions -- including 25 presidential memoranda, 24 presidential proclamations, and 29 executive orders, which are published in the federal register. The executive acts vary in scope and efficacy. Some serve as a signal of administration priorities, such as the ones where agencies are instructed to study changes to certain federal rules. Others are more substantial, such as the attempted travel bans currently held up in foreign court. All, it could be said, reflect the temperament and habits of a lifelong executive comfortable with issuing orders but still learning how to navigate the complexities of federal lawmaking.   Here's the list of the 29 executive orders Mr. Trump has signed in his first 100 days in office: Minimizing the Economic Burden of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Pending Repeal, Jan. 20, 2017 - The order directs the head of Health and Human Services and other departments to use their authority to "waive, defer, grant exemptions from or delay the implementation of any provision or requirement of the act that would impose a fiscal burden on any state or cost, fee, penalty, or regulatory burden on individuals, families, healthcare providers, health insurers patients, recipients of healthcare services, purchasers of health insurance or makers of medical devices, products and medications."  Expediting Environmental Reviews and Approvals for High Priority Infrastructure Projects - Calls for expediting reviews on infrastructure projects like bridges, electric grid, repairs to critical infrastructure, such as bridges, ports, airports, and highways.   Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements - The first executive order calls for "the immediate construction of a physical wall on the southern border" -- or in other words, the U. S.- Mexico border wall that was a key promise of Mr. Trump's campaign. It also provides additional resources to DHS to stop people intending to "illegally enter the United States without inspection or admission." The order also calls for an additional 5,000 border agents. Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States - This order allows the attorney general and homeland security secretary to make a determination whether certain cities, known as "sanctuary cities," could be denied federal grants.   The order also says the DHS must prioritize deportations for people in the U. S. illegally who have been convicted of a criminal offense, have been charged with one, have engaged in fraud and abused any program related to public benefits, among other criteria. It also calls for the hiring of 10,000 more immigration officers, which Congress would have to agree to allocate funding for.  Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States -   This was Mr. Trump's original travel ban. It imposed a 90-day moratorium on travel to the U. S. from seven countries: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Somalia and Libya, restricted Syrian refugees from entering the U. S. indefinitely, and also banned refugees from the U. S. for 120 days. This travel ban was tied up in the courts and later replaced by a new travel ban, which has also been stopped from going into effect by the courts.  Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Appointees - This bans administration officials from ever lobbying the U. S. on behalf of a foreign government again and imposes a five-year ban on people lobbying the agency they previously worked for. Another part of the order said that for two years, appointees must avoid working on issues involving their former clients or employees.  Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs - This order requires that two regulations be removed for every new regulation added. The White House argues that this will reduce the burden the private sector has in complying with federal standards.  Core Principles for Regulating the United States Financial System - Directs the Treasury secretary to review the 2010 Dodd- Frank financial oversight law, which reshaped financial regulation after the 2008-09 financial crisis.  Enforcing Federal Law with Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations and Preventing International Trafficking - This order says a comprehensive approach is necessary to defeat drug cartel trafficking, saying the executive branch will strengthen law enforcement efforts to thwart criminal gangs and cartels. It establishes that the federal government will give a high priority to detecting and dismantling such criminal organizations.  Preventing Violence Against Federal, State, Tribal, and Local Law Enforcement Officers, Feb. 9 - This executive order directs the executive branch to enforce all existing laws to enhance law enforcement at every level, as well as pursue legislation to define new federal crimes and increase penalties for existing crimes to prevent violence against law enforcement officers. The order also requires a thorough evaluation of all grant funding to protect and support law enforcement, and recommend any change in funding to the president.  Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Justice - This order sets out a list of succession in the event that the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General or Associate Attorney General dies, resigns or is otherwise "unable to perform" their duties. In that event, the replacing officers would be: the U. S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; The U. S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; or the U. S. Attorney for the Western District of Missouri.  Task Force on Crime Reduction and Public Safety - This order sets forth that it is the policy of the executive branch to "reduce crime in America," creating a task force to reduce illicit activity. Attorney General Jeff Sessions will be in charge of the task force, which will develop strategies to reduce crime and submit a report to the president within a year.  Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda - This order sets forth that it is the "policy of the United States to alleviate unnecessary regulatory burdens," designating regulatory reform officers at each agency. Each officer is responsible for overseeing multiple orders that roll back and review regulations. The regulatory reform officers must report to the agency head with updates on their progress.  Restoring the Rule of Law, Federalism, and Economic Growth by Reviewing the " Waters of the United States" Rule - This order reviews the Waters of the United States Rule, which conservatives have said gives the federal government too much power over America's waters and has created excessive, regulatory-induced burdens.  The White House Initiative to Promote Excellence and Innovation at Historically Black Colleges and Universities - This order establishes that HBCUs are an important part of American history, and creates an initiative to work with agencies, the private sector and educational institutions to increase the private sector's role in these schools to better equip students. The order also requires the Secretary of Education to prepare a plan to strengthen HBCUs' capacity to compete for grants.  Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, Mar. 6 - New executive order that will impose a 90-day ban on the issuance of new visas to people from six predominantly Muslim nations and will suspend the U. S. refugee program for all countries for 120 days. Unlike the original travel ban, this excludes Iraq and doesn't indefinitely block Syrian refugees from the U. S. Comprehensive Plan for Reorganizing the Executive Branch, Mar. 13 - Authorizes his top budget official, OMB Director Mick Mulvaney, to examine federal departments in search of areas where money can be saved.  Revocation of Federal Contracting Executive Orders - This order revokes some Obama-era executive orders related to federal contracting, and requires all executive agencies to consider rescinding any orders, rules, regulations or policies that implement those orders. One of the orders required certain prospective federal contractors to disclose violations of some basic workplace protections, like wage and hour, safety and health, and family or medical leave violations.  Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth - This order establishes that the country should develop its "vast energy resources," and avoid burdensome regulations that "encumber" energy production. It also sets forth that coal, natural gas and other resources are fair game for energy development. The order also demands that any necessary and appropriate environmental regulations comply with the law and that their benefits outweigh their costs.  Establishing the President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis - As an opioid crisis ravishes the country, this order establishes that executive branch should relieve the U. S. of drug abuse and addition, establishing a commission to address the problem. The commission will make recommendations to the president on how to combat the crisis, spot underserved regions, create best practices for preventing addition, and identify the proper federal programs to carry out any federal intervention.  Establishing Enhanced Collection and Enforcement of Antidumping and Countervailing Duties and Violations of Trade and Customs Laws - This order develops the Secretary of Homeland Security, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Commerce and the U. S. Trade Representative to develop a plan requiring importers, that pose a risk to U. S. revenue to provide security for antidumping and countervailing duty liability. The order also directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop a plan for combating violations of U. S. trade and customs laws, and the Attorney General to develop recommended prosecution practices for significant violations of trade laws.  Regarding the Omnibus Report on Significant Trade Deficits - This order says that, for many years, the U. S. hasn't obtained the "full scope of benefits" anticipated under international trade agreements or participating in the World Trade Organization, and sets forth a plan to begin addressing that problem.  Buy American and Hire American - This order sets forth that the policy of the executive branch is to buy American products and hire Americans. That means supporting U. S. manufacturing and defense industrial bases and enforcing laws governing entry of workers abroad entering the U. S. The goal is to increase wages and employment for Americans.  Identifying and Reducing Tax Regulatory Burdens - This order states that the federal tax system should be as "simple, fair, efficient and pro-growth" as possible. It requires the Secretary of the Treasury to review all tax regulations issued since January 2016 under Obama.  Promoting Agriculture and Rural Prosperity in America - The order claims it is "in the national interest" to promote agriculture in the U. S. and protect agricultural rural districts. The order establishes a task force focused on agricultural prosperity in rural areas, with support from the Secretary of Agriculture. The task force includes major cabinet secretaries, including the Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Secretary of Energy, among others.  Review of Designations Under the Antiquities Act - Apr. 26, 2017 - This Trump executive order directs the review of federally designated lands to determine if the federal government should relinquish ownership to states. It will consider all national monument designations of federal public lands since 1996 that are 100,000 acres or larger. Mr Trump singled out former President Barack Obama's "egregious" use of federal power in using the Antiquities Act to "unilaterally" place swaths of American land and water under federal control, adding, "it's time we ended this abusive practice."  Enforcing Statutory Prohibitions on Federal Control of Education - With this order, the administration attempts to "restore the proper division of power" under the Constitution between the federal government and the 50 states, making it a priority to preserve local control over education.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-religious-liberties-executive-order-to-give-irs-discretion-on-enforcement/
Executive order to let IRS choose when to enforce law banning churches from political activity - CBS News Sister Loraine Mc Guire with Little Sisters of the Poor speaks to the media after Zubik v. Burwell, an appeal brought by Christian groups demanding full exemption from the requirement to provide insurance covering contraception under the Affordable Care Act, was heard by the U. S. Supreme Court in Washington, D. C., March 23, 2016. President Trump will sign an executive order Thursday that gives the IRS discretion on enforcing the law prohibiting tax-exempt nonprofit groups from participating in any candidate's political campaign, and allows the administration to give regulatory relief as it sees fit from controversial Obamacare requirements. According to a senior White House official on a conference call Wednesday night, the executive order allows the IRS -- when IRS officials choose -- not to enforce the Johnson Amendment, which prohibits nonprofits such as churches and charities from "directly or indirectly" engaging in a political campaign. But the order doesn't provide blanket relief for tax-exempt religious organizations, opening the possibility that the IRS could pick and choose whom to penalize. The official was clear that the order does not change current law, and any activity that is illegal now will still be illegal after Mr. Trump signs the executive order. In February, Mr. Trump promised to "destroy" the Johnson Amendment. This executive order falls short of that, but the official didn't indicate whether Mr. Trump would work with Congress or attempt another route of further addressing the 60-year-old law in the future. In his second speech of the day on Saturday, Donald Trump highlighted his policy promises from earlier in the day. Trump promised religious liber... The order will also provide regulatory relief from Obamacare requirements such as the requirement that organizations provide contraception care. The Little Sisters of the Poor and Hobby Lobby cases were the most prominent instances of organizations fighting to be freed from the requirement to provide contraception, despite individual beliefs. The order also declares that it's a policy of the administration and the executive branch to vigorously protect religious liberty.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/sanctuary-city-ban-passes-texas-legislature-greg-abbott/
AUSTIN, Texas --  The Texas Legislature on Wednesday passed a ban on so-called "sanctuary cities" that allows police officers to ask about a person's immigration status and threatens sheriffs and police chiefs with jail time if they don't work with federal authorities. What is a sanctuary city? And what happens now? San Francisco celebrates after "sanctuary city" legal victory President Trump's executive order to cut funds for sanctuary cities has been blocked by a federal judge in San Francisco. The Washington Post's E... Republican Gov. Greg Abbott has pledged to sign the bill into law, which could now come quickly. The GOP-led Senate passed the bill Wednesday despite objections from Democrats, who call the bill a "show-me-your-papers" measure that will be used to discriminate against Latinos. The term "sanctuary cities" has no legal definition, but Republicans want local police to help federal immigration agents crack down on criminal suspects in the U. S. illegally. The bill allows the state to withhold funding from local governments for acting as sanctuary cities. Republicans have a strong majority in the Legislature and shoved aside Democratic objections to push the bill, even as President Donald Trump's efforts to withhold federal funding for sanctuary cities have hit roadblocks in federal courts. Seattle is suing the Trump administration over the order to cut off funding to so-called "sanctuary cities." Mayor Ed Murray joins Major Garrett ... The Texas bill allows police to inquire about the immigration status of anyone they detain, a situation that can range from arrest for a crime to being stopped for a traffic violation. It also requires local officials to comply with federal requests to hold criminal suspects for possible deportation." We do not want illegal criminals back on the street. This is about the rule of law. It's always been about the rule of law," said bill sponsor Sen. Charles Perry, a Republican from Lubbock. He dismissed the concerns of racial profiling and harassment as "fearmongering." Texas doesn't currently have any sanctuary cities, but that hasn't stopped Abbott and Republican legislative leaders from pushing aggressively to ban them. Sally Hernandez, the sheriff of Travis County, which includes liberal Austin, enraged conservatives by refusing to honor federal detainer requests if the suspects weren't arrested for immigration offenses or serious crimes such as murder. Hernandez softened her policy after Abbott cut funding to the county, saying decisions would be made on a case-by-case basis. She has said she will conform to the state's ban if it becomes law. Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick said the bill "will ensure that no liberal local official can flaunt the law."" There is no excuse for endangering our communities by allowing criminal aliens who have committed a crime to go free," Patrick said. Fierce resistance has come from Texas Democrats and immigrants' rights organizations, as well as from some in law enforcement and top business lobbies. Opponents say it opens the door to discrimination and intimidation. Many sheriffs and police chiefs in heavily Democratic areas warn that it would make their jobs harder if immigrant communities -- including crime victims and witnesses -- become afraid of the police. Immigrant rights activist Barbie Hurtado leads protesters chanting during a sit-in at the Texas Department of Insurance building in Austin, Texas on Mon., May 1, 2017. The protesters, opposing proposed Texas legislation that would compel police to enforce federal immigration laws, vow to occupy the building until Republican Gov. Greg Abbott vetoes the bill.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/state-department-review-to-cost-more-than-1-million/
The State Department will be spending at least $1,086,250 for the "listening tour" that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson launched Wednesday morning.  The department has contracted Insigniam, a private consulting firm, to conduct the review in a project they are calling the " Department of State organizational study." The State Department has not replied to requests for comment on the review's price tag and their decision to use Insigniam to carry out this review.  Tillerson and the Insigniam co-founder Nathan Owen Rosenberg served on the Boy Scouts of America board together in 2011. The State Department has not replied to requests for comment on the review's price tag and their decision to use Insigniam to carry out this review.  In a note to all State Department employees last week, Tillerson said they would all get survey links in their inboxes Wednesday morning. So far, State employees say that have not gotten that link to the survey. When they do get it they will have less than two weeks to fill it out.  According to the State Department, 300 in-person interviews will be conducted as well. In total, the study, which began last week, will roughly a month. The results of the review "will be compiled and a final report will be generated in May," Tillerson wrote in that same letter to employees. On his 90th day in office, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spoke to his department for just the second time. He explained how " America First" is... Tillerson has said that the mission of the State department is to "deliver on the president's policies" to advance America's economic and national security interests. On Wednesday, he elaborated on how the department will seek to live up to Trump's " America first" foreign policy, which he indicated will in some cases put less of a priority on human rights concerns. " In some circumstances, we should and do condition our policy engagements on people adopting certain actions as to how they treat people. They should. We should demand that. But that doesn't mean that's the case in every situation," he explained. " If you condition our national security efforts on someone adopting our values, we probably can't achieve our national security goals or our national security interests." But in order to achieve those goals, he sees the need to restructure the State Department. " We've not fully adapted how we deliver on mission," Tillerson explained.  Some State employees see value in trimming the department but worry about losing their voice as the White House takes the lead on foreign policy. White House officials with little foreign policy experience are taking the lead on top foreign policy agenda items, such as the Middle East peace process. State employees also have reservations about an external group carrying out the review of the department where career diplomats have valuable institutional knowledge. " Some of what Tillerson is doing needs to be done. We are overstaffed the State Department. But the review is b*******. He is getting an outside group to asses when it should be done internally," said one disgruntled State Department employee. Still, Tillerson asked employees to approach this effort with "no constraints" on their thinking. He added that although this process may be "stressful" it will be worth it in the end, but did not directly address reports that he is considering cutting 2,300 jobs. " There's nothing easy about it, and I don't want to diminish in any way the challenges I know this presents for individuals, it presents to families, it presents to organizations. I'm very well aware of all of that," Tillerson said. " I can promise you that when this is all done, you're going to have a much more satisfying, fulfilling career, because you're going to feel better about what you're doing because of the impact of what you are doing. You will know exactly how what you do every day contributes to our delivery on mission." CBS News' Laura Stickler contributed reporting to this story.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/new-health-care-bill-vote-scheduled-thursday/
U. S. House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy speaks to the media about the American Health Care Act at the Capitol in Washington, D. C., March 15, 2017. The House will vote on the GOP's proposed health care bill Thursday, according to Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy's office. The vote on the long-awaited health care bill is expected to take place early Thursday afternoon. The vote comes more than a month after the GOP's first failed attempt, when the vote was called off due to a lack of support, and before Congress goes into recess for 11 days.  House leadership has been working to attract enough votes to pass the bill. Last week, Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wisconsin, told reporters, " We're going to go when we have the votes, but that's the decision we'll make when we have it." The House Freedom Caucus -- many members of which opposed the health care proposals introduced earlier this year -- has endorsed the latest attempt at health care reform. President Trump says "it's time" for Congress to pass a new health care bill, but he doesn't have enough Republican votes. CBS News' Major Garret... The GOP can only afford to lose 22 votes for the measure to pass.  As of Thursday evening, the proposed legislation had no public scoring from the Congressional Budget Office.  The GOP health care push has been controversial, especially over questions about whether it will cover pre-existing conditions. On CBS' " Face The Nation" Sunday, President Trump pledged it would.  CBS News' Rebecca Shabad contributed to this report.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/rex-tillerson-state-department-changes/
WASHINGTON -- To mark his 90th day in office, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spoke to State Department employees for just the second time. Tillerson is planning big changes at the department -- doing more with less. During his speech, he explained how he plans to implement President Trump's " America first" foreign policy. " If you condition our national security efforts on someone adopting our values, we probably can't achieve our national security goals or our national security interests," Tillerson said. He defended the U. S. strategy to isolate nuclear-armed North Korea, but said conditions are not yet right for a meeting with dictator Kim Jong Un.  Tillerson is planning big changes at the department -- doing more with less. Tillerson also shared details for a plan to rebuild trust with Russia by getting President Vladimir Putin to broker a cease-fire in Syria. " The relationship between our two nations was the lowest it's been since the Cold War," he said.  But Tillerson is tackling those thorny issues without the usual top diplomats. He still has not appointed policy directors for Asia, the Mideast or Russia.  Of the 119 jobs that require Senate sign-off, only three have been confirmed. The president has nominated an additional seven.  Tillerson failed to explain his plan to eliminate more than 2,000 jobs, and potentially cut a quarter of the department's budget. But he began a listening tour that will cost more than $1 million. Tillerson hired an outside contractor to help with the reorganization of the department. That leaves career diplomats wondering if these cuts will help streamline the bureaucracy, or simply gut a building already concerned that power is being concentrated in the hands of officials with far less foreign policy experience. Principally assigned to the State Department, Margaret Brennan also serves as a CBS News general assignment correspondent based in Washington, D. C. Army Spc. Hilda Clayton took a photo in the split-second between when a mortar tube accidentally exploded and the blast killed her From the moment Jimmy White found out his daughter was pregnant, he decided to become a spoiling kind of grandpa
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/susan-rice-wont-testify-before-congress-on-russian-meddling-in-election/
U. S. National Security Advisor Susan Rice heads to her seat before a ceremony awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom to various recipients in the East Room of the White House in Washington, D. C., Nov. 22, 2016. Former Obama National Security Adviser Susan Rice won't testify before Congress next week, her lawyer informed a Senate subcommittee by letter Wednesday. Rice attorney Kathryn Ruemmler said in her letter, which was obtained by CBS News, that Rice "respectfully declines Senator Graham's invitation to testify," citing the fact that she had not received a bipartisan invitation from both Sen. Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism and ranking member Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat.  Ruemmler said that Whitehouse hadn't agreed to Graham's invitation to Rice, "a significant departure from the bipartisan invitations extended to other witnesses." She said that Rice would assist Congress with its probe of Russian election interference "because of the important national interests at stake, provided they are conducted in a bipartisan manner, and as appropriate, in classified session." Graham responded to  Rice's decision not to testify in a statement. " During a press interview, [ Rice] denied improperly unmasking the names of American citizens who were surveilled as part of incidental collection," Graham wrote. " Media reports suggest otherwise." He went on to say, " At an appropriate time, I expect we will continue down this path. I hope Ms. Rice will come before the committee – and not just the press." While she was national security adviser, Rice requested the unmasking of some names in U. S. intelligence reports. Some were involved in the Trump presidential transition. But Rice has denied that she ever requested that a name be unmasked for political reasons. She has also denied being the source of the leak of the identity of then- National Security Adviser Michael Flynn on calls during the transition period with Russian Envoy Sergey Kislyak.  Graham said in his statement that Obama's former DNI, James Clapper and former acting AG Sally Yates will testify about Russian meddling in the U. S. election and what they knew. CBS News' Julia Kimani Burnham contributed to this report
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/political-talk-at-work-on-the-job-disruptive-after-election/
Last fall, before the presidential election in November, a survey of U. S. employees found many were stressed out by political conversations happening in the workplace. So have stress levels died down now that the election is history? Just the opposite, it seems. A new post-election survey indicates that the political climate for workers has only gotten worse." We did the survey last fall in the lead-up to the election and found, indeed, all these discussions swirling around at work were affecting people on the job. So, on the heels of the election, we were curious about how that might have changed," Dr. David Ballard, director of the American Psychological Association's Center for Organizational Excellence, told CBS News. Over the past 15 years, American workers have taken less and less vacation. In 2015, 55 percent of Americans surveyed didn't use all of their vac... The online survey of 1,311 full- and part-time workers, conducted between February and March of 2017 by Harris Poll for the American Psychological Association, found more than half of workers — 54 percent — have discussed politics on the job since the election.  And those conversations appear to be taking a toll. Twenty-six percent of workers reported feeling tense or stressed in the latest survey, compared to 17 percent before the election. Twenty-one percent felt cynical and negative during the workday, compared with 15 percent pre-election. Those emotions can negatively affect relationships at work, dampen productivity and create a more hostile work environment, Ballard said. For 40 percent of American workers surveyed, exchanging political views has led to at least one negative outcome, such as poorer work quality, difficulty getting work done or developing a more negative view of a coworker. It's a big jump from the pre-election survey results that found 27 percent reported at least one negative outcome. While 15 percent of workers said they'd personally gotten into an argument with a coworker about politics, the post-election survey reveals that even those not engaged in such conversations have been affected. About one-third (31 percent) of employees said they had witnessed coworkers squabbling about politics." It has major implications for employees and employers," said Ballard. Previous research has tied instability and difficult relationships in the workplace to mental health problems including depression and anxiety, job stress, emotional exhaustion and burnout, said Ballard. The hidden reasons behind job burnout" For employers, that's linked to withdrawal behaviors and more absences and higher levels of turnover," he said. While the survey didn't get into the nuances of peoples' conversations, it found that debate was less about the political party someone belongs to than the political values he or she holds — how you feel about social justice and civil liberties issues, for example, Ballard said." The survey did bear out that it does have more to do with political philosophies and values. We didn't find many differences by political party," he said. But there was one regard in which party affiliation did come into play. The researchers noted that before the election, Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives, all reported about equal levels of stress and negativity — but in the post-election survey, liberals were worse off.  A Trump supporter (left) and a protester argue on Inauguration Day in Washington, D. C. After Donald Trump took office, 38 percent of self-described liberals reported feeling tense or stressed as a result of political discussions at work, compared to 21 percent of conservatives. And liberals were twice as likely to perceive an increase in workplace hostility — 26 percent of liberals, versus 13 percent of conservatives. Ballard said it's up to managers and supervisors to create an environment where diverse opinions and backgrounds are accepted, or a wedge can be driven between people." Keep an eye on those interactions in the workplace. Be aware of members on your team who are experiencing these effects. Address any issues up front before they become problems. Model good behavior yourself, demonstrate civility and acceptance of differences in the workplace," he recommended. Consider reaching out for support to your human resources department or to an organizational psychologist, a professional trained to work with companies to help employees have conversations that are difficult. Pet health care bills can climb into the tens of thousands of dollars as new technologies and treatments drive up costs
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lawmakers-pass-spending-deal-to-fund-government-through-september/
The House passed a $1.1 trillion spending deal Wednesday that funds the government through the rest of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. House lawmakers approved the comprehensive measure in a 309-118 vote, with the Senate expected to vote by Friday to avert a government shutdown on Saturday. Republican and Democratic negotiators reached the agreement Sunday night, and Vice President Mike Pence told " CBS This Morning" earlier this week that President Trump had signed off on its parameters. President Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday morning to defend his budget deal, insisting the country was in need of what he called a "good shutdow... Democrats have cheered the wins in the bill, which doesn't fund Mr. Trump's planned wall along the U. S.- Mexico border, provides funding for Planned Parenthood and gives the National Institutes of Health ( NIH) a budget boost. Republicans' major victory in the measure is a boost to defense spending -- a $25 billion increase for the U. S. military over the 2016 level. The bill includes more than $76 billion for the Pentagon's war fund, known as the overseas contingency operations ( OCO) account, which is used for operations overseas such as those against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS). The measure, however, withholds $2.5 billion of war-related funding until Mr. Trump submits his comprehensive plan to defeat ISIS to Congress, according to a summary prepared by Democrats. It said, " The plan shall include benchmarks for progress in defeating ISIS and directs the secretary of defense and secretary of state to provide quarterly updates to Congress." Other items in the legislation include a 1 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA) and funding to reimburse local police departments in places like New York City and Florida to cover security needed to protect the president and the rest of the first family. Lawmakers also reached a deal to permanently fund health benefits for retired coal miners. The next spending showdown is just a few months away, when lawmakers will need to pass a new package by Oct. 1. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump threatened a government shutdown in a tweet on Tuesday, laying the groundwork for what's sure to be a messy and chaotic legislative season this fall.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/poll-half-of-voters-oppose-pre-existing-condition-opt-out-for-states/
Protesters gather across the Chicago River from Trump Tower to rally against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act Friday, March 24, 2017, in Chicago. A poll conducted by POLITICO and Morning Consult surveying nearly 2,000 registered voters found that 50 percent of respondents "oppose" or "strongly oppose" giving states the option to opt-out of requiring health insurance companies to cover pre-existing conditions. Only 38 percent of respondents said they would support states' rights to choose whether or not to opt out of the Obamacare protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The Affordable Care Act ( ACA) originally established the law requiring health insurance companies to insure people with pre-existing conditions-- companies previously had the right to decide whether they would cover these individuals. This federal protection could be threatened as the newly proposed GOP health care bill, the American Health Care Act ( AHCA), which attempts to repeal and replace Obamacare, approaches a Congressional vote. According to the poll, 46 percent of respondents agree that " The federal government should set a national standard of health insurance coverage that outlines the minimum benefits all health insurance plans must provide." President Trump told CBS' Face the Nation on Sunday that the new healthcare bill, the AHCA, will "actually have a clause that guarantees" coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. There has been some debate about the protections afforded to those with pre-existing conditions in the new GOP bill. Rep. Tom Mac Arthur, R- New Jersey, crafted language for the bill that states " Nothing in this Act shall be construed as permitting health insurance issuers to limit access to health coverage for individuals with preexisting conditions," according to a legislative summary. However, in the current iteration of the bill, states may apply for a variety of waivers relieving them of certain Obamacare regulations. One of these waivers applies to how health insurers set premiums based off of "health status," which may include current or past health issues. A new amendment is also being added by Rep. Fred Upton, R- Michigan, which would provide more funding for high-risk pools, aimed at helping those with pre-existing conditions afford health insurance. The poll also shows that a majority of Americans are in favor of the newly proposed bill-- 42 percent said they support it, while only 37 percent said they oppose. While the Trump administration is pushing for a quick turnaround on the bill's vote, 58 percent of people responding to the poll agree that  " Congress should wait until the Congressional Budget Office estimates the bill's economic impact." CBS has confirmed 19 House Republicans who oppose the AHCA-- the bill can only afford 22 Republican "no's" in order for the bill to pass.   More people trust House Democrats (42 percent) over House Republicans (37 percent) to handle health care issues in Congress.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/where-does-president-donald-trump-approval-rating-stand-polls/
In this March 31, 2017, photo, President Donald Trump listens during a meeting with the National Association of Manufacturers in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. President Trump's approval ratings continue to hover somewhere in the mid-forties, according to a host of recent polls. Forty-three percent of Americans said they approve of the job the president is doing in a You Gov poll released Wednesday, while 47 percent said they disapprove. In a Reuters/ Ipsos poll released Tuesday, 44 percent of Americans said they approve of the president's job performance, and 51 percent said they disapprove. This week, CBS News polls put President Trump's approval numbers at 41 percent as he hits the 100-day mark. That number is lower than his predece... And in a Gallup poll also released Tuesday, the president's numbers were even deeper underwater: 42 percent said they approve of the job he's doing, while 54 percent said they disapprove. The latest CBS News survey, released last week, showed a similar spread: 41 percent said they approve, and 53 percent said they disapprove. The You Gov survey found the public split on some of Trump's recent policy moves. Forty percent of respondents said they approve of the way the president is handling tensions with North Korea, for example, while 33 percent said they disapprove. 27 percent had no opinion. Seventy-three percent of respondents told You Gov they'd heard a lot or a little about Mr. Trump's tax plan, but only 33 percent said they support it. Thirty-five percent said they oppose it, and 32 percent had no opinion. " Face the Nation" moderator John Dickerson asked President Trump to reflect on his administration's achievements and lessons learned during his f... The survey showed greater support for the president's recent declaration that he would either renegotiate or terminate the North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA). Fifty-six percent said they approved of Mr. Trump's proposal, while only 19 percent said they disapprove. 25 percent said they have no opinion. The You Gov survey polled 1,500 Americans between April 29 and May 2, and it had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percent. Gallup's poll surveyed 1,500 Americans between April 29 and May 1, and it has a margin of error of plus or minus three percent. The Reuters/ Ipsos survey contacted 2,224 Americans between April 27 and May 1, and it has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.4 percent. And the CBS News poll surveyed 1,214 Americans between April 21 and 24, and it has a margin of three percent. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-says-there-is-very-very-good-chance-for-palestinian-israeli-peace-deal/
President Donald Trump said there was a "very, very good chance" that he could bring the Palestinians and Israelis together to achieve peace during a Wednesday press conference alongside Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. " I will do whatever is necessary to facilitate the agreement, to mediate, to arbitrate, anything they'd like to do -- but I'd love to be a mediator, or an arbitrator or a facilitator, and we will get this done," Mr. Trump said. President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner has no diplomatic experience, but he has become Mr. Trump's point person for high-stakes international... Mr. Trump also warned Abbas that the Palestinians will have to take certain steps to bring the Israelis on board: " There can be no lasting peace unless the Palestinian leaders speak in a unified voice against incitement to violence and hate, there's such hatred, but hopefully there won't be such hatred for very long." Abbas gave Mr. Trump credit for trying, saying "you have the determination to be successful" and that they could be "historic partners." Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas delivers a statement accompanied by U. S. President Donald Trump during a visit to the White House in Washington D. C., U. S., May 3, 2017. Abbas also called for a Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital -- a day after Vice President Mike Pence said that the U. S. was giving serious consideration to recognizing Jerusalem, not Tel Aviv, as the capital of Israel. Abbas also detailed his view on what a two-state solution to the issue would look like, including recognition of the Palestinian state by Israel. However, Mr. Trump mostly spoke in generalities about peace talks. He noted that he had spoken to Israeli Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu about re-energizing talks, but remained uncommitted to a two-state solution. " Over the course of my lifetime, I've always heard that perhaps the toughest deal to make is the deal between the Israelis and the Palestinians -- let's see if we can prove them wrong, ok?" Mr. Trump said.  CBS News' Margaret Brennan contributed to this report
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/senate-venezuela-trump-russia-oil/
Opposition supporters clash with police during protests against unpopular leftist President Nicolas Maduro in San Cristobal, Venezuela, April 19, 2017. A bipartisan group of U. S. Senators introduced a wide-ranging bill Wednesday aimed at the crisis in Venezuela, calling for sanctions and demanding President Donald Trump step in to prevent a deal struck by Venezuela's state oil company that might lead to Russian ownership of U. S. oil. The bill calls for the State Department to coordinate an international response to the crisis in Venezuela; requires the U. S. intelligence community to prepare an unclassified report on the involvement of Venezuelan government officials in corruption and the drug trade; and would provide $10 million in humanitarian aid for the country. Food shortage and triple-digit inflation in Venezuela have led to weeks of violent protests against President Nicolás Maduro. The Russian government could be on the cusp of claiming a partial ownership stake in a leading U. S. oil company -- and the some of the American o... In addition, a section of the bill highlights a Nov. 30 loan given by Russia's state-owned oil company, Rosneft, to Venezuela's state-owned oil company PDVSA. The deal would allow the Russian company to take control of nearly half of the U. S. oil company Citgo, which PDVSA owns, if Venezuela defaults on its debts. CBS News first reported on the deal in March. Influential senators from both parties sponsored the bill, including Senators Ben Cardin, D- Md.; Marco Rubio, R- Fla.; John Cornyn, R- TX; Dick Durbi, D- Ill.; John Mc Cain, R- Ariz.; Bill Nelson, D- Fla.; Tim Kaine. D- Va.; Chris Van Hollen, D- Md. and Bob Menendez, D- NJ." The United States Congress is forced once again to take forceful legislative action in light of the appalling dismantling of democracy, explosion of human rights abuses and boiling economic crisis in Venezuela," Menendez, the ranking member of Senate Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, said in a statement to CBS News. " The suffering of the people of Venezuela is real and harrowing, and it now appears evident Nicolas Maduro will continue abusing them without any accountability and will continue to drive his country's economy further into the ground unless the international community steps up in a major way." Venezuela is bracing for new violence after huge anti-government protests turned deadly. Tens of thousands of demonstrators crowded streets acros... The bill comes five days after U. S. Treasury Steven Mnuchin missed a deadline to respond to a letter sent by six senators, including some who are sponsors of the bill, calling for the Treasury to investigate the Rosneft deal. The deal "could have significant national security implications for critical energy infrastructure in the United States," the senators wrote in the letter. The letter notes that the deal would potentially give Rosneft a 49.9 percent minority stake in Citgo, but other transactions could tip the Russian company into owning a majority of the company. The senators also expressed concerns that Russia could use its control of Citgo to counter sanctions imposed by the Obama administration after  Russia annexed the Ukrainian territory of Crimea in March 2014.   The bill effectively bypasses the Treasury Department, calling on the President to take all necessary steps to prevent Rosneft from gaining control of U. S. energy infrastructure. Menendez said in his statement to CBS News that the Venezuelan crisis may have a far-reaching impact beyond the country's borders" As the Venezuelan regime spirals out of control, this bipartisan legislation represents our resolve for the United States to speak unequivocally in our rejection of the abhorrent state of affairs in Venezuela and its potential destabilizing impact in our hemisphere," Menendez said.   Got news tips about the petroleum industry, international finance or public corruption? Email this reporter at Kates G@cbsnews.com, or via his encrypted address, grahamkates@protonmail.com ( PGP fingerprint: 4b97 34aa d2c0 a35d a498 3cea 6279 22f8 eee8 4e24). Graham Kates is an investigative reporter covering criminal justice, privacy issues and information security for CBSNews.com.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/two-no-votes-on-health-care-bill-change-to-yes-after-trump-meeting/
Following a meeting with President Donald Trump, Reps. Billy Long, R- Missouri, and Fred Upton, R- Michigan say they're switching their votes from "no" to "yes" on the revised GOP health care legislation. Upton said that with the addition of his own amendment, the revised health care bill is "likely to pass." The White House still expects a vote Friday or Saturday, CBS News' Major Garrett reports, and the administration now believes the legislation has real momentum. Long said he talked to Trump Monday and again Tuesday to set up Wednesday's meeting, according to Garrett. Upton said the issue of pre-existing conditions has been resolved and credited Trump and Pence for their flexibility and willingness to keep the dialogue going. He did not explain how the measure, requiring an additional $8 billion, would be paid for in the bill. The funding "will more than cover those who might be impacted and as a consequence, keeps our pledge for those that in fact would otherwise be denied because of pre-existing illnesses," said Upton of his amendment. Specifically, the funds would backstop funding for high-risk pools for insurance coverage, increasing the availability of funds for those with pre-existing conditions.  Upton's amendment aims to help some people with pre-existing medical conditions pay costly insurance premiums, and it would go into effect when a waiver is sought by a state.   According to the recent Mac Arthur Amendment to the bill, states granted a waiver would be allowed to set up high-risk pools or participate in a new federal invisible risk-sharing program to help states reimburse the cost for insurers for covering these consumers.  The Upton amendment, if enacted, would go into effect when governors successfully obtain waivers for insurers to set premiums based on the health status of consumers. " You may have some states that do that, this language is now specifically written for those states that seek a waiver to protect those with pre-existing conditions." Upton's comments come just days after Mr. Trump made promises to guarantee coverage for those with pre-existing conditions, a statement Upton said he brought up in his conversation with the president. " I read him back his statement where he said that this bill would be just as strong on pre-existing illnesses as Obamacare. I want him to keep that pledge. This amendment allows that to happen and cover those that otherwise might have been excluded. " said Upton. He added that the House will consider the legislation "likely tomorrow."
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/david-axelrod-to-hillary-clinton-it-takes-a-lot-of-work-to-lose-to-donald-trump/
Democratic political consultant David Axelrod speaks to members of the media at Hofstra University after the second presidential debate on October 16, 2012 in Hempstead, New York. U. S. President Barack Obama and Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney debated in a town hall style meeting this evening at the university. David Axelrod, a former top adviser to President Barack Obama, told CNN on Wednesday that "it takes a lot of work to lose to Donald Trump," referring to former 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's surprising loss in her race for the for the White House."[ FBI Director] Jim Comey didn't tell her not to campaign in Wisconsin after the convention, Jim Comey didn't say 'don't put any resources into Michigan until the final week,'" Axelrod said. His comments came after Clinton sat down Tuesday for an interview in which she partly blamed Comey's letter to Congress, which came out just 11 days before the presidential election and reopened the FBI's investigation into Clinton's use of a private email server, for her campaign's loss on November 8. Hillary Clinton spoke candidly before an international women's rights group about why she thinks she lost the 2016 presidential race. Clinton sai... " I was on the way to winning until the combination of Jim Comey's letter on October 28 and Russian Wiki Leaks raised doubts in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me, but got scared off," Clinton said. Axelrod blamed Clinton's campaign mistakes for her loss, such as her lack of attention to key states like Michigan and Wisconsin, rather than outside factors such as the Comey letter. Both states went for Mr. Trump in November, the first time a Republican won either in decades. " One of the things that hindered her in the campaign was a sense that she never fully was willing to take responsibility for her mistakes, particularly that server," Axelrod said. Yesterday, Mr. Trump tweeted about Clinton's comments on Comey, saying that the FBI director was "the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton" because he recommended she not face criminal charges over the server. Mr. Trump followed up with a tweet arguing that the " Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election." FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony...— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 3, 2017 ... Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 3, 2017
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/book-obama-proposed-to-another-woman-before-michelle/
President Barack Obama gives a kiss to his wife first lady Michelle Obama before the arrival of then- President-elect Donald Trump and his wife Melania Trump, at the White House on Jan. 20, 2017 in Washington, DC. Barack Obama proposed to a serious girlfriend before he met his eventual wife Michelle, according to a new biography of the former president. The book – " Rising Star: The Making of Barack Obama" by David J. Garrow – was reviewed Wednesday in The Washington Post. The review details the book's assessment of Obama's relationship with Sheila Miyoshi Jager, who is now a professor at Oberlin College in Ohio. Jager told Garrow that Obama asked her to marry him in the winter of 1986. Jager's parents objected to the union, believing her to be too young, as she was in her early 20s and two years younger than Obama. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who calls former President Obama a friend, discusses Mr. Obama's $400,000 speaking fee at an upcoming Wall Street co... Their romance continued, but Jaeger says his political ambitions got in the way. Possessed by a sense that he was destined to a life in politics, and could even become the first African- American president, she says race soon cast a shadow over their relationship. " I remember very clearly when this transformation happened, and I remember very specifically that by 1987, about a year into our relationship, he already had his sights on becoming president," Jaeger told Garrow. Obama kept his personal ambitions and private life separate for a time, Jager says. But eventually, she says, according to Garrow, that Obama found her ethnicity a serious political handicap. Jagar is of Dutch and Japanese heritage, while Obama increasingly looked to rise by embracing his African- American background. Garrow notes that, for a young black politician on the rise in Chicago, a racially mixed marriage could be a liability. He details the trials of an African- American state senator with a white wife who had to fend off accusations that he "talks black but sleeps white." He also quotes Carol Moseley Braun, who became Illinois' first African- American senator and whose ex-husband was white, as saying "interracial marriage really restricts your political options." According to Jager, such considerations weighed heavily on Obama and put great strain on their relationship. A mutual friend of the couple told Garrow he remembered Obama saying, " The lines are very clearly drawn… If I am going out with a white woman, I have no standing here." Obama, known as Barry for much of his young life, started going by Barack, and Jaeger recounts him becoming "irrationally furious" when she called him by his old nickname during a trip to Hawaii. " He told me that under no circumstances was I ever to use that name with him," Jaeger says. Obama eventually asked Jaeger to marry him again before he departed for Harvard Law School. He wanted her to come with him, she says, despite their increasingly fraught relationship, "mostly, I think, out of a sense of desperation over our eventual parting and not in any real faith in our future." At Harvard Law, Garrow writes, Obama irritated fellow students with his penchant for classroom oratory even as he was broadly admired on campus. He then became the first African- American chief editor of the Harvard Law Review, a moving moment for the other black editors on staff that gave the young Obama his first taste of national attention. After his first year at Harvard, Obama returned to Chicago as a summer associate at a prestigious local law firm. There he met Michelle Robinson, the future first lady and an employee at the firm. Their relationship quickly became serious, although he still saw Jaeger some when she arrived at Harvard on a teaching fellowship. " I always felt bad about it," Yaeger tells Garrow. Eventually, though, Obama and Robinson became engaged. His communications with Jaeger became increasingly sporadic. And the rest, as they say, is history.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/new-healthcare-bill-vote-whip-count-today/
GOP House leaders announced Wednesday the House will vote on their health care bill Thursday afternoon. They have been working to attract enough votes to pass the measure and have repeatedly said they would not take the measure to the floor until they had the votes.At this point, CBS News counts 16 members who will vote "no" on the measure in its current form. President Trump met Wednesday morning with two Republicans who had announced their opposition to the health care bill, Reps. Fred Upton, R- Michigan, and Billy Long, R- Missouri. After the meeting, Long said he now supports the bill, as does Upton. Upton had come to the White House armed with his own amendment, which aims to give more protections to those with pre-existing conditions by providing $8 billion additional funding over the next five years to help these consumers with their insurance premiums. Upton told reporters he supported the bill, with the inclusion of his amendment. Me Members of the House Freedom Caucus have endorsed the latest attempt at health care reform.  But Rep. Leonard Lance, R- New Jersey, a member of the moderate Tuesday Group, said hat leadership knows that he opposes the bill and asked if there's anything they could do to persuade him to reverse his position, he said,  " I don't think so at this stage." After weeks of negotiations, members of the conservative Freedom Caucus have finally agreed to vote yes on the amended GOP health care bill. The ... " I'm a no, no, no, no, no, no, no," said Rep. Ileana Ros- Lehtinen, R- Florida, last Thursday. " We're a very heavily Medicaid dependent state. I have three counties that are over 30 percent. It's bad on seniors. None of my health care providers, none of them, are even close to supporting them. There's nobody in the district that likes it and too many people could be falling through the cracks. This doesn't fix any of that," Rep. Frank Lo Biondo, R- New Jersey, said. " I'm a definite no." The new piece of legislation also includes an amendment written by Rep. Tom Mac Arthur, R- New Jersey, a leader of the Tuesday Group. His plan would allow states to receive federal waivers for certain Obamacare coverage requirements in an effort to encourage "fair health insurance premiums." " It'll come up when we have 216 votes in favor of it," Mac Arthur told reporters last week. The Freedom Caucus has endorsed the bill, providing a big boost to efforts to revive the measure. There had been talk about bringing the bill to the floor for a vote as President Trump enters his 100th day in office on Saturday, but GOP leaders delayed the vote. Republican leaders are still counting their votes, and urging members to support the latest version. The count below reflects where House GOP members stood after the Mac Arthur amendment, but in most cases, before Upton's amendment. The GOP can afford to lose only 22 Republican votes for the measure to pass. Here's a list of the House Republicans who oppose the bill in its current form, confirmed by CBS: Rep. Mark Amodei, R- Nevada Rep. Andy Biggs, R- Arizona Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, R- Washington Rep. Barbara Comstock, R- Virginia Rep. Ryan Costello, R- Pennsylvania Rep. Charlie Dent, R- Pennsylvania Rep. Dan Donovan, R- New York Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick, R- Pennsylvania Rep. Walter Jones, North Carolina Rep. John Katko, R- New York Rep. Leonard Lance, R- New Jersey Rep. Frank Lo Biondo, R- New Jersey Rep. Thomas Massie, R- Kentucky Rep. Patrick Meehan, R- Pennsylvania Rep. Ileana Ros- Lehtinen, R- Florida Rep. Chris Smith, R- New Jersey Reported by Catherine Reynolds by Catherine Reynolds, Rebecca Shabad and Rebecca Kaplan.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-has-track-record-of-embracing-strongmen-around-the-world/
President Trump has demonstrated a record of praising strongmen around the world, a pattern that comes in stark contrast to his predecessor. Mr. Trump, for example, invited Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, to visit the White House after what the White House called a "very friendly" phone conversation between the two leaders on Sunday. The invitation prompted a backlash from Democrats in Congress and human rights activists appalled by Duterte's bloody crackdown that's left thousands of his own citizens dead. President Obama had canceled a scheduled meeting last fall after Duterte referred to him as a "son of a bitch" and warned Obama not to question him. Later in the month, Duterte compared himself to Hitler, saying he would be "happy to slaughter" three million drug addicts. He later apologized for the remark. Duterte has been carrying out a drug war in which he's called on armed citizens to shoot and kill drug dealers without trials. Here is a look at some of the other strongmen Mr. Trump has found reason to praise or offered to work with around the world: Kim Jong Un Amid ongoing tensions involving North Korea and its nuclear threat, Mr. Trump floated the idea Monday of meeting with Kim Jong Un under the "right circumstances." CBS News' Major Garrett explains President Trump's interest in meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. " If it would be appropriate for me to meet with him, I would absolutely, I would be honored to do it," he said. " If it's under the -- again, under the right circumstances. But I would do that." In an interview with CBS's " Face the Nation" over the weekend, the president called Kim Jong Un a "pretty smart cookie." " People are saying: ' Is he sane?'" he said of the North Korean leader. " I have no idea....but he was a young man of 26 or 27... when his father died. He's dealing with obviously very tough people, in particular the generals and others."" And at a very young age, he was able to assume power. A lot of people, I'm sure, tried to take that power away, whether it was his uncle or anybody else. And he was able to do it. So obviously, he's a pretty smart cookie." Since he took power six years ago, Kim has reportedly purged or executed a number of government officials. He is believed to have had his half-brother killed in a brazen attack with VX nerve agent at a Malaysian airport earlier this year. North Korea reportedly executes top education official South Korea says "enraged" Kim had 5 security officials executed Why did Kim Jong Un have his defense minister executed? Vladimir Putin The president spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin by phone Tuesday about Syria, terrorism and North Korea. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, the president advocated improving the U. S. relationship with Russia. In fact, last September, Mr. Trump called Putin "a leader far more than our president," referring to President Obama. " I mean you look, we're all tough guys, but wouldn't it be nice if like Russia and us could knock out an enemy together?" he said at a rally in December 2015. " Russia has plenty of problems, but I'll tell you what, if Putin likes me, and he thinks I'm a good, smart person, which, I mean I hope he believes it." Mr. Trump has made the comments despite allegations that Putin ordered the murder of journalists and political opponents in Russia and has cracked down on his own people. In 2014, Putin said that Russia needed to "cleanse" itself of homosexuality. The U. S. intelligence community has also concluded that Putin ordered for a campaign involving covert intelligence operations and overt propaganda to undermine faith in the U. S. election, disparage Hillary Clinton and help Donald Trump's election chances. The two leaders spoke after the election in November and again after Inauguration Day in January. Abdel Fattah el- Sisi Mr. Trump welcomed Egypt's president to the White House in early April and told him, " You have a great friend and ally in the United States and in me." After the two met for the first time last September in New York, Mr. Trump called el- Sisi a "fantastic guy" and said they have "good chemistry." Obama never invited el- Sisi to the White House and his administration repeatedly admonished the Egyptian government over its human rights record. Obama also briefly suspended some U. S. military aid.  El- Sisi's government faced heavy criticism in the 2016 State Department human rights report, which pointed to excessive use of force by his security forces, which "included unlawful killings and torture." The report also cited el- Sisi for due process problems, with some trials "involving hundreds of defendants in which authorities did not present evidence on an individual basis, and arrests conducted without warrants." It went on to say that the government's investigation of human rights abuses were not comprehensive, "contributing to an environment of impunity."  Saddam Hussein During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump raised eyebrows when he praised deposed Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein for his proficiency in killing terrorists. " Saddam Hussein was a bad guy, right? ... But you know what he did well? He killed terrorists. He did that so good," Trump told supporters at a campaign rally in Raleigh, North Carolina last August. " They didn't read 'em the rights, they didn't talk. They were a terrorist, it was over." In an interview with CBS News' John Dickerson earlier that year, Mr. Trump also had good things to say about Hussein, who was executed by the Iraqi government after he was overthrown and captured by U. S. forces during the Iraq War. " Saddam Hussein -- who's a bad guy and all of that -- but he made a living off killing terrorists," Trump told Dickerson. " Now, if you want to become a terrorist, you go to Iraq. That's like the Harvard of terrorism, OK? So, look, it was not a great job." Among his many crimes, Hussein persecuted and killed tens of thousands of Kurds while he was in power -- Human Rights Watch estimated that as many as 50,000-100,000 were killed with chemical weapons in northern Iraq. His regime also dropped mustard and nerve gases on the town of Halabja, Iraq, killing some 5,000. Recep Tayyip Erdogan Mr. Trump congratulated Erdogan after the autocratic Turkish president pushed through a contested referendum greatly expanding his powers last month. Opposition parties and international monitors -- as well as the U. S. State Department -- had expressed concerns that there were voting irregularities during the referendum, which passed narrowly.  Still, Mr. Trump called Erdogan to congratulate him on the outcome. White House press secretary Sean Spicer attempted to dodge questions about the referendum, and said an international commission created to study the vote should be allowed to do its job. " They have a right to have elections and their people participated in that," Spicer said. " Before we start getting into their government system, let this commission get through its work." Last year, Erdogan cracked down on civil service employees after an attempted coup, jailing tens of thousands, and firing or suspending thousands of school teachers, university deans, police officers, judges and prosecutors.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-on-uss-intrepid-australia-health-care/
President Trump delivers remarks at an event with veterans and Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea, aboard the USS Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum in New York on Thu., May 4, 2017. President Trump praised Australia's health care system as better than the United States' system after meeting with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull in Manhattan on Thursday evening, hours after the U. S. House passed a bill repealing and replacing portions of Obamacare. There's just one catch for the Republican president -- Australia has a universal health care system, which is largely publicly funded. Mr. Trump said the House GOP's health care bill, the American Health Care Act, "could change a little bit" in the Senate, or perhaps become "even better." " It's going to be fantastic health care," Mr. Trump told reporters after meeting with the Australian prime minister. " Right now, Obamacare is failing. ... We have a failing health care." Adding that Australia has better health care than the U. S. currently does, he said, " We're going to have great health care very soon." The NYPD expects President Trump to be greeted by thousands of protesters Thursday when he returns to the city for the first time since his inaug... Mr. Trump made the comments just before speaking on the USS Intrepid to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Battle of Coral Sea, a World War II battle in which more than 600 Americans were killed trying to protect Australia from a Japanese invasion. But Mr. Trump's health care comments drew more attention from Twitter on Thursday night than his other remarks. The House narrowly passed the American Health Care Act Thursday with a 217-213 vote, but the bill faces an uphill battle in the Senate. Mr. Trump said he expects the bill to pass anyway." I think we'll get it through," he said, saying House Republicans united "like magic" to pass the bill in that chamber earlier. Thousands were expected to protest Mr. Trump's appearance in New York City, his first since taking office in January.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/sanctuary-city-ban-texas-latino-community-federal-immigration-laws/
DALLAS -- Texas lawmakers passed a bill Wednesday that outlaws "sanctuary cities" -- cities that don't enforce federal immigration laws. What is a sanctuary city? And what happens now? The legislative action comes after weeks of heated debate and political jousting. A group of protesters rally during a sit-in at the Texas Department of Insurance building in Austin, Texas on Monday, May 1, 2017. The protesters, opposing proposed Texas legislation that would compel police to enforce federal immigration laws, vow to occupy the building until Republican Gov. Greg Abbott vetoes the bill. State Sen. Charles Perry, who co-sponsored the measure, claims this bill will make Texas communities safer. Texas Sen. Charles Perry " It's about protecting our communities. We don't want those individuals that have committed crimes -- illegal or otherwise -- that when they had an opportunity to be locked up for public safety to be released at the discretion of local law enforcement," Perry said. The bill will give every Texas police officer and sheriff's deputy the power to enforce federal immigration law. Peace officers can ask the immigration status of anyone under arrest -- or even detained. Travis County Judge Sarah Eckhardt Travis County Judge Sarah Eckhardt says the new law will unfairly target Texas' large Mexican and central American communities." They feel that they're being hunted," Eckhardt said. " Even the native-born are in fear that they're going to be pulled over and asked by a police officer whether they belong here or not -- even if they've been here for generations." Texas police complied with federal requests and detained more than 35,000 undocumented people between 2014-2016, according to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University. A Syracuse University project showed that between 2014 and 2016 Texas police complied with federal requests and detained more than 35,000 undocumented people. That's 20,000 more than the state of California detained. The controversial bill has been criticized by police chiefs from Dallas to San Antonio. Under the measure, officers who exercise discretion and don't comply with federal immigration requests could be charged with a misdemeanor." If the state has chosen to conscript us as immigration officials we will have to comply," Eckhardt said. Tweet by Gov. Greg Abbott after the "sanctuary city" ban was approved Wed., May 3, 2017. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott tweeted after his legislative victory: " I'm getting my signing pen warmed up." Once signed, the law will go into effect on Sept. 1, but opponents plan to fight the measure in court. Army Spc. Hilda Clayton took a photo in the split-second between when a mortar tube accidentally exploded and the blast killed her From the moment Jimmy White found out his daughter was pregnant, he decided to become a spoiling kind of grandpa
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/gop-health-care-bill-obamacare-pre-existing-conditions/
WALKER, La. -- Republicans haven taken their biggest step yet to make good on a vow to repeal and replace Obamacare. The American Health Care Act ( AHCA) passed the House 217-213 Thursday, with one vote to spare. The Republican-sponsored plan covers pre-existing conditions, but not the way Obamacare does.  Robin Parrott -- a mother of four from Walker, La. -- says she was troubled by Thursday's vote. " It's frightening," Parrott said. " I'm worried about what that impact will have on my family and the medical bills that we might incur."  Collin, 3, suffers from a pre-existing condition that may not be covered under the Republican-sponsored American Health Care Act. Her 3-year-old son, Collin, has a pre-existing, chronic condition called hydronephrosis that prevents his right kidney from draining properly due to a blockage. " Are we going to have my son's insurance cut?" Parrott asked. " Are they going to cover him? Will they cover enough of it? Because without what we had, we would still be in debt, and we would forever be in debt, I have a feeling." More than two million Americans covered by Obamacare have pre-existing conditions. The new House bill would allow states to file for a waiver from the requirement that guarantees their coverage. To qualify, states would have to set up so-called high-risk pools -- money that is used to pay for expensive premiums. Republicans took the biggest step yet in their vow to repeal and replace Obamacare. Just six weeks after their effort appeared dead, the House pa... Back in Louisiana, officials have not signaled that they will seek a waiver. But $138 billion has been set aside in the GOP bill for all 50 states to help fund those high-risk pools.  Larry Levitt, of the non-partisan Kaiser Family Foundation, says the bill "does not automatically eliminate coverage for people with pre-existing conditions." " What this bill would do is unleash debates in 50 state capitals around the country about whether people with pre-existing conditions should really be covered and protected," he said.  The top 11 states with the highest percentage of people that have pre-existing conditions all voted for President Trump. In Louisiana, 30 percent of people under the age of 65 have a pre-existing condition. Army Spc. Hilda Clayton took a photo in the split-second between when a mortar tube accidentally exploded and the blast killed her From the moment Jimmy White found out his daughter was pregnant, he decided to become a spoiling kind of grandpa
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-state-department-employee-had-been-accused-of-sexual-assault/
A Trump political appointee who has been accused of sexual assault is now working at the State Department. Steven Munoz, who graduated from The Citadel in South Carolina in 2011, has been at the State Department since late January. He is now the Assistant Chief of Visits in the Office of the Chief of Protocol. While a student at The Citadel, Munoz was accused by five underclassmen of sexual assault, according to Pro Publica. He did not face legal charges.  The State Department will not comment on the status of his security clearance but acknowledges that every employee must go through a "background investigation" when their application for a security clearance is submitted." The process to receive or maintain a security clearance includes consideration of many aspects of an individual's life to determine whether that individual can be trusted with access to classified information," a State Department official wrote. Both personal and professional history matters in this review, and they look for qualities such as "loyalty, strength of character, trustworthiness, honesty, and reliability." The reports of Munoz's sexual assault are not new. Munoz worked for Rick Santorum's presidential campaign in 2012. When the allegations came out, Munoz's lawyer dismissed them as politically motivated.  In 2014, The Citadel concluded that the assaults occurred after it conducted an investigation, which included interviewing complainants and witnesses.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/when-pigs-might-fly-in-front-of-trump-tower-in-chicago/
A parade of giant gold pigs could be flying by Trump Tower in Chicago some time this summer, obscuring the 20-foot-high " TRUMP" letters on the side of the building facing the Chicago River. Flying Pigs on Parade - artistic rendering Chicago-based architecture design group New World Projects came up with the idea for " Flying Pigs on Parade" as a response to Donald Trump's victory in the presidential election. The floating art installation would send four giant gold pig ballons attached to a barge down the Chicago River for a day this summer, on a Saturday or Sunday in August,  CBS Chicago reports. New World Projects still has to raise between $100,000-$150,000 to cover the costs of the project and the City of Chicago has not yet signed off, according to CBS Chicago.  The idea was inspired by George Orwell, and according to the project's website, it would be "a visual response to the loud, illogical and frequently hateful expressions that polluted the presidential elections and that now define the actions of our U. S. leadership."  Visually, the project was inspired by Pink Floyd's " Animals" album cover, which also features a flying pig. Pink Floyd's Roger Waters has given the group his approval, and New World Projects plans to replicate its project in other cities after the Chicago debut of the pigs. According to CBS Chicago, the pigs have been named, too -- Old Major, Napoleon, Squealer and Minimus -- in an homage to Orwell's " Animal Farm." CBS Chicago also points out that Trump Tower dates to 2008, but it was in 2014 that Mr. Trump decided to mark his building with the giant TRUMP letters, which span two floors of the building, "covering 2,800 square feet and...illuminated at night with LED lights."
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lewandowskis-firm-lobbies-for-venezuela-owned-company-that-has-deal-with-russia/
Corey Lewandowski, President Donald Trump's former campaign manager, just resigned from another job — and there's a Russia connection. Lewandowski left Avenue Strategies, the lobbying firm he founded in December, amid revelations it is lobbying on behalf of Citgo, a U. S.-based oil company that is currently Venezuelan-owned. But a large chunk of Citgo could soon be owned by Russia's state-owned oil giant Rosneft, CBS News has confirmed. Barry Bennett, Lewandowski's partner at Avenue Strategies, told CBS News that the lobbying firm was contracted to begin work for Citgo on April 1. News site Politico recently reported that Avenue Strategies has advertised its ability to arrange meetings with "key members" at the White House, including President Trump himself and Vice President Mike Pence.  At the same time, a bipartisan group of senators is trying to force the president to intervene and prevent the Russian acquisition from going ahead. Lewandowski is leaving because he "doesn't want to be a target," Bennett said. The Russian government could be on the cusp of claiming a partial ownership stake in a leading U. S. oil company -- and the some of the American o... Avenue Strategies is being paid $25,000 a month for its Citgo work by Vantage Knight, another firm that lobbies for Citgo. A disclosure form filed by Vantage Knight indicates that the offices of the president and the vice president are among the federal agencies it is lobbying on behalf of Citgo.    Bennett said in an email that " Corey (was) not involved" and that the firm's work is "limited to Citgo facilities and folks in the U. S.," but a disclosure filing by Vantage Knight suggests the lobbying work is geared toward international concerns.  The company is lobbying about the "potential impact of U. S. energy and foreign policy restrictions on CITGO Petroleum Corporation's operations and valuation of assets," as well as "sanctions related issues," according to the filing.   Avenue Strategies' other clients include Big Cat Rescue, a sanctuary for tigers in Florida; Community Choice Financial Inc., a payday lender parent company; the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration; Flow Health Inc., a former contractor for the U. S. Department of Veterans Affairs whose contract was canceled in January; and Red Horse Corporation, a program management company that is seeking certification as a Veterans Affairs contractor. Vantage Knight's Citgo lobbyist, Manuel Ortiz, declined to comment when reached by phone Thursday. Citgo, which operates three pipelines and three refineries in the U. S., is owned by the Venezuela's state-run energy company PDVSA. The country and its company are subject to a variety of sanctions, and a bipartisan Senate bill introduced Wednesday calls for the U. S. to take a tougher stance against the Venezuelan government amid widespread protests in the country. The Venezuelan company received a $1.5 billion loan on Nov. 30 from Rosneft, the Russian state-owned company run by Igor Sechin, long considered to be Vladimir Putin's right-hand man. Under the terms of the loan, if PDVSA defaults on its debts, Rosneft will claim 49.9 percent of Citgo.  CBS News first reported on the deal in March.  Credit ratings agencies have indicated they consider a PDVSA default to be likely in the near future. Though the default would lead Rosneft to control a minority share of Citgo, a letter sent to the Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on April 10 by six U. S. senators speculates that other investments by the Russian company could lead it to control a majority of the oil company. Wednesday's senate bill warns that the deal "could have significant national security implications for critical energy infrastructure in the United States." Rosneft's acquisition of Citgo would likely be reviewed by the Treasury-led Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, but Wednesday's bill seeks to bypass that process. It specifically calls for "the President (to) take all necessary steps to prevent Rosneft from gaining control of critical United States interstate energy infrastructure." Got news tips about the petroleum industry, international finance or public corruption? Email this reporter at  Kates G@cbsnews.com, or via his encrypted address, grahamkates@protonmail.com ( PGP fingerprint: 4b97 34aa d2c0 a35d a498 3cea 6279 22f8 eee8 4e24). Graham Kates is an investigative reporter covering criminal justice, privacy issues and information security for CBSNews.com.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/nancy-pelosi-calls-gop-health-care-bill-robin-hood-in-reverse/
House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D- California, on Thursday criticized the GOP health care bill, the  American Health Care Act, as " Robin Hood in reverse." Its approval will "provide a great civics lesson for America," Pelosi said, and the economic benefits of health care will move from "the middle class and those who aspire to it, to the wealthiest" Americans. The House has passed the GOP bill to replace Obamacare. CBS News political director Steve Chaggaris joins CBSN to discuss what the next steps are... The House voted by a razor thin margin (217-213) to pass the AHCA. Pelosi called out the bill's failure to fully cover those with pre-existing conditions, its resulting higher premiums and deductibles, and lack of coverage in certain areas such as maternity and emergency care. " Right now the Republicans are in the Rose Garden having a beer party to celebrate one of the biggest transfers of wealth from working families to the richest people in our country," Pelosi said in a news conference after the vote, referring to these GOP politicians as "the trickle-down crowd." The next stop for the bill is the Senate, which has signaled plans to revise the AHCA before it reaches President Trump's desk for signature. Pelosi has been spoken derisively of  the Republican efforts to dismantle the Obama-era Affordable Care Act ( ACA), which she shepherded through the House to its successful passage in March 2010. She also spoke out against the new health care bill's first draft, which fell through in March after failing to receive a sufficient number of votes to pass. " When you know the facts, and you care about people, you can't possibly vote for the bill that they voted for today," Pelosi said.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/house-health-care-bill-gop-senators-signal-theyll-make-changes/
The early reaction from Senate Republicans to the House passage of the American Health Care Act ( AHCA) to repeal and replace Obamacare signaled they're likely to make changes to the House bill. What is a pre-existing condition? The chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee suggested that GOP senators could even pitch their own legislation to dismantle the Affordable Care Act." I congratulate the House on passage of its bills. The Senate will now finish work on our bill, but will take the time to get it right," Sen. Lamar Alexander, R- Tennessee, said in a statement. Here's what's actually in the latest House GOP health care bill The goals for the Senate bill, he said, include lowering premium costs, rescuing Americans trapped in the Obamacare exchanges, making sure those with pre-existing conditions have access to insurance and gradually giving states more flexibility with Medicaid. The health care bill passed by House Republicans covers pre-existing conditions, but not the way Obamacare does. Instead, the bill would allow st... Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell's, R- Kentucky, office said that the upper chamber will consider the measure once budgetary and procedural scorekeeping reviews are completed. The House passed the latest GOP-sponsored version of the bill Thursday afternoon without a new score from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office ( CBO).  Is Trump right that pre-existing conditions are covered in the GOP health care bill? Still, Mc Connell praised it as "an important step."" We are now closer to giving our constituents freedom from the increased costs, diminishing choices, and broken promises of Obamacare," he said in a statement. CBS News chief Washington correspondent John Dickerson weighs in on the political impact of the House passing an Obamacare replacement bill. He added that the status quo is "unacceptable," but Mc Connell's statement didn't say whether the Senate would take up the House bill. The Senate has to first review whether the House measure complies with budget reconciliation rules, which allow for a simple majority of senators to pass a bill rather than a supermajority. If the Senate crafts a different version, it will have to be reconciled with the House. While other Senate Republicans stopped short of explicitly embracing the bill in its current form, they applauded their House counterparts for moving forward. " I don't know what's in it," Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- South Carolina, said. " I'd be curious about the Medicaid provisions. South Carolina chose not to expand Medicaid which I thought was responsible. My test will be: is it good for the people of South Carolina? And is it good for the nation? I have no idea yet." The House has passed a bill intended to replace Obamacare. CBS News chief congressional correspondent Nancy Cordes joined CBSN with the reaction ... But Graham also criticized the House for rushing the measure to the floor. " The bill has been out for less than 24 hours," Graham said. " No amendments. Debates for three or four hours. Any time you have a process like this that hasn't been scored you've got to be suspicious of the outcome." Sen. John Mc Cain, R- Arizona, said he thinks Congress needs to "reach a conclusion," but he also disapproved of the House decision to vote on the bill before a CBO score had been issued. The House has passed the GOP bill to replace Obamacare. CBS News political director Steve Chaggaris joins CBSN to discuss what the next steps are... " I don't approve of it, but whatever they want to do. They spend their time criticizing me, but I won't," he said. Sen. Bill Cassidy, R- Louisiana, said "it will be weeks to get a score" and Sen. Rand Paul, R- Kentucky, said that the Freedom Caucus made the bill "a lot less bad." " That's the nicest thing I could think to say," Paul said. " Part of my problem with the bill is that the underlying premise of Obamacare is that the federal government for the first time would buy insurance for people. That fundamental premise of Obamacare is kept." CBS News' Walt Cronkite contributed to this report.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/tillerson-asks-state-employees-to-describe-their-mission-in-six-words/
In an effort to understand how the wheels turn at the State Department, and how they can spin more smoothly, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is surveying its 75,000 employees worldwide with an online questionnaire.  The questionnaire focuses on how to streamline internal processes and get the employees the tools they need so that the department can best fulfill its mission. It requests six words from every employee to help them "build a word cloud" to describe that mission.  It also asks if employees feel that their daily work is contributing to the department's mission and how it should evolve over the next 20 years. There are also questions about the responsibilities of the department and what work they should be giving to other agencies. It asks how often internal duplications and inter-agency duplications arise. This focus is critical as the department prepares to slim down. The White House blueprint budget proposed a 31 percent cut to the State Department's budget. It asks what works well, what is frustrating, and how often the department is looking to re-work processes. In some aspects, there is a corporate tone to the review." In the past 12 months, have you made a change to a process or approach that has positively impacted a client/customer's experience, or increase the value they received from working with your unit?" it asks. This survey is part of a department-wide review conducted by an outside consulting group that will cost over $1 million. As part of the review, State Department officials are traveling in person to some missions abroad. The international post visits include, but are not limited to, Haiti, Bogota, Manila, Kigali and Bangkok.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/house-gop-members-take-victory-lap-at-white-house-after-health-bill-passes/
President Trump hailed House Republicans' narrow passage of the American Health Care Act ( AHCA) as a win for the party, applauding House GOP leaders swift action in securing the necessary support this week. " This is a great plan, and this is a repeal and a replace of Obamacare, make no mistake about it," said Mr. Trump. The health care bill passed by House Republicans covers pre-existing conditions, but not the way Obamacare does. Instead, the bill would allow st... He added " It's going to be an unbelievable victory when we get it through the Senate." The members made their way to the White House immediately following Thursday's 217-213 vote in a victory lap following weeks of revisions, including last-minute amendments to the existing bill. Michigan Republican Rep. Fred Upton's amendment to the bill would add $8 billion over five years to cover insurance for people with pre-existing conditions. The addition appeared to sway members who previously opposed the bill, as well as those who were undecided. CBS News chief Washington correspondent John Dickerson weighs in on the political impact of the House passing an Obamacare replacement bill. Mr. Trump credited the success to the teamwork of House members saying the work to get the bill passed "brought the party together"-- but was quick to give himself a pat on the back as well. " You know, coming from a different world and only being a politician for a short period of time, how am I doing? Am I doing ok? Hey, I'm the president, can you believe it?" said Mr. Trump. Speaking in the Rose Garden, Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wisconsin, called the passage just one part of the process as more work needs to be done. The House has passed a bill intended to replace Obamacare. CBS News chief congressional correspondent Nancy Cordes joined CBSN with the reaction ... " I know our friends in the Senate are eager to get to work," said Ryan. He added "the stakes are just too high, the problems facing American families are real and the problems facing American families as a result of Obamacare are just too dire." This is the first significant step to Mr. Trump's campaign promise to "repeal and replace Obamacare" as it now heads to the Senate for a vote, where members expect yet more changes to the bill.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/what-is-a-pre-existing-condition/
In the new version of the American Health Care Act ( AHCA), the Republican bill to replace the Obama-era Affordable Care Act ( ACA), one of the major points dividing the GOP conference was the treatment of pre-existing conditions.  What's actually in the latest House GOP health care bill?  What does the current law say? The guarantee of health care coverage to people with pre-existing conditions has been one of the ACA's most popular features. Under the law, insurance companies cannot refuse to cover those with pre-existing conditions, that is, health issues that pre-date a new health insurance coverage. Insurers also can't charge more or refuse to pay for Obamacare "essential benefits" for any pre-existing condition. And, once enrolled in a plan, insurers can't deny such patients coverage or raise rates based solely on their health. What about the new plan, the American Health Care Act?  The new GOP plan requires insurers to cover pre-existing conditions, and for those with continuous health care coverage, nothing will change. There are some caveats, though.  Insurers would be able to charge more to people with gaps in their insurance coverage. And a recent change, the Mac Arthur amendment, would allow states to waive some of the Obamacare requirements, including one that's relevant to pre-existing conditions. States that are granted such a waiver would allow insurers to set premiums based on health status -- current health, health history and other risk factors -- or in other words, pre-existing conditions.  These states would also be able to set up high-risk pools to help reimburse the cost for insurers covering these consumers. The AHCA would provide funding for this purpose, though critics suggest it may not be enough.  What are pre-existing conditions? States are likely to leave it to insurers to define pre-existing conditions, but prior to the ACA, pregnancy fell into that category, as well as mental disorders, and alcohol or drug abuse. The Kaiser Family Foundation compiled a list of what insurers called "declinable medical conditions" and risk factors that, prior to the ACA, could mean denial of coverage or higher premiums. Here are some of the conditions identified by individual market insurers in most states: Alzheimers or dementia Alcohol or drug abuse Arthritis, fibromyalgia, or other inflammatory joint disease Cancer within a period of time (the example cited by KFF is 10 years, "often other than basal skin cancer") Cerebral palsy Congestive heart failure Diabetes mellitus Emphysema Epilepsy Heart disease Hepatitis Kidney disease Mental disorders - bipolar, or eating disorders, e.g. Multiple Sclerosis Muscular dystrophy Obesity (severe) Organ transplant Paraplegia Paralysis Parkinson's disease Pending surgery or hospitalization Pneumocystic pneumonia Pregnancy or expectant parent Sleep apnea Stroke Transsexualism Jennifer Tolbert, who is the Director of State Health Reform at the Kaiser Family Foundation, has read the AHCA and says at this point, it's not entirely clear how consumers with these conditions will be affected.  She said that in the past, individuals with pre-existing conditions in high-risk pools typically paid more than the average premium, "maybe 1.5 times as much," she said. But Tolbert also pointed out other problems, such as that pre- ACA, consumers faced waiting lists to get into high-risk pools or higher deductibles or insurance that didn't cover the medical problems stemming from the pre-existing condition.    She also pointed to another factor to consider, related to insurance coverage for people with pre-existing conditions: the AHCA would change the structure of the premium tax credits in the marketplaces, so older Americans, who are likely to be sicker, will probably see their tax credits go down.  This, combined with the rise in age rating (allowing seniors to be charged up to five times as much for coverage as younger Americans, rather than three times as much under the ACA) and the phase-out of the Medicaid expansion, is likely to result in more Americans losing their insurance coverage, according to Tolbert.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/congress-passes-spending-deal-to-fund-government-through-september/
The Senate passed a $1.1 trillion spending deal Thursday that funds the government through the rest of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, sending it to President Trump's desk.  Mr. Trump is expected to sign the measure. House lawmakers approved the comprehensive measure in a 309-118 vote on Wednesday. Republican and Democratic negotiators reached the agreement Sunday night, and Vice President Mike Pence told " CBS This Morning" earlier this week that President Trump had signed off on its parameters. President Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday morning to defend his budget deal, insisting the country was in need of what he called a "good shutdow... Democrats have cheered the wins in the bill, which doesn't fund Mr. Trump's planned wall along the U. S.- Mexico border, provides funding for Planned Parenthood and gives the National Institutes of Health ( NIH) a budget boost. Republicans' major victory in the measure is a boost to defense spending -- a $25 billion increase for the U. S. military over the 2016 level. The bill includes more than $76 billion for the Pentagon's war fund, known as the overseas contingency operations ( OCO) account, which is used for operations overseas such as those against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS). The measure, however, withholds $2.5 billion of war-related funding until Mr. Trump submits his comprehensive plan to defeat ISIS to Congress, according to a summary prepared by Democrats. It said, " The plan shall include benchmarks for progress in defeating ISIS and directs the secretary of defense and secretary of state to provide quarterly updates to Congress." Other items in the legislation include a one percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA) and funding to reimburse local police departments in places like New York City and Florida to cover security needed to protect the president and the rest of the first family. Lawmakers also reached a deal to permanently fund health benefits for retired coal miners. The next spending showdown is just a few months away, when lawmakers will need to pass a new package by Oct. 1. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump threatened a government shutdown in a tweet on Tuesday, laying the groundwork for what's sure to be a messy and chaotic legislative season this fall.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-signs-religious-liberty-order-to-defend-freedom-of-religion/
Commemorating the National Day of Prayer, President Trump signed an executive order he says will "defend freedom of religion and speech in America."" It was looking like you'd never get here folks, but you got here," said Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden Thursday, addressing members of various faith communities. He called it the first time such a religious statement has been made so publicly on the White House grounds. At the National Prayer Breakfast Thursday morning, President Trump vowed to put an end to the so-called Johnson Amendment, which bars tax-exempt ... " The Founding Fathers believed religious liberty was so fundamental they enshrined it in the first amendment in the constitution, yet for too long the Federal government has used the power of the state as a weapon against people of faith bullying and even punishing Americans for following their religious beliefs," said Mr. Trump. " No American should be forced to choose between the dictates of the government and their faith," Mr. Trump added, " Freedom is not a gift from government. Freedom is a gift from God." The president, surrounded by various faith leaders and Vice President Mike Pence, signed executive orders that would allow the IRS -- when IRS officials choose -- not to enforce the Johnson Amendment, which prohibits nonprofits such as churches and charities from "directly or indirectly" engaging in a political campaign. But the order doesn't provide blanket relief for tax-exempt religious organizations, opening the possibility that the IRS could pick and choose whom to penalize. Mr. Trump called the Johnson Amendment "very unfair" and had promised on the campaign trail to "destroy" the amendment if he won." If I didn't win, I'd probably be out enjoying my life, but I wouldn't be helping you with the Johnson Amendment," joked the president with faith leaders. According to a senior administration official, the entire White House team, including Mr. Trump's daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, both observant orthodox Jews, worked on the executive order. The order, which was based on one of Mr. Trump's campaign promises, would also provide regulatory relief from Obamacare requirements such as the requirement that organizations provide contraception care, which was heavily debated in the Little Sisters of the Poor case. Mr. Trump commended the nuns from the case for having "good lawyers." Mr. Trump took a moment during the event to also formally announce his plans to travel to the Middle East, where he is expected to travel to Saudi Arabia to hold talks with Muslim leaders in an effort to help "combat terrorism and violence and to embrace a more just and hopeful future for young Muslims in their countries."" Our task is not to dictate to others how to live but to build a coalition of friends and partners" to fight terrorism, and to "bring stability to the war ravaged Middle East," added the president. Mr. Trump will continue his overseas visit to Israel and then to Rome shortly thereafter, ahead of the NATO and G7 meetings. The NYPD expects President Trump to be greeted by thousands of protesters Thursday when he returns to the city for the first time since his inaug... The president also promised to direct the Department of Justice to develop new rules to establish religious protections are afforded to all Americans." Under my administration, free speech does not end at the steps of a cathedral or synagogue, we are giving our churches their voices back, with this order, we will also make clear that the federal government will never penalize any person for their protected religious beliefs," said Mr. Trump. In a statement issued following Mr. Trump's remarks, the ACLU announced their intentions to file a lawsuit in response to the executive order." The actions taken today are a broadside to our country's long-standing commitment to the separation of church and state. Whether by executive order or through backroom deals, it's clear that the Trump administration and Congressional leadership are using religion as a wedge to further divide the country and permit discrimination," said American Civil Liberties Union Executive Director Anthony D. Romer in a statement. The statement went on to say " President Trump's efforts to promote religious freedom are thinly-veiled efforts to unleash his conservative religious base into the political arena while also using religion to discriminate. It's a dual dose of pandering to a base and denying reproductive care. We will see Trump in court, again."
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/whats-in-the-latest-house-gop-health-care-bill/
The House of Representatives passed a bill Thursday to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, known as  Obamacare, a development that brings Republicans one step closer to fulfilling one of President Trump's campaign promises and achieving a policy goal they've sought for years. The bill passed by a thin margin: the 217 lawmakers who voted in favor were all Republicans, and the 213 who voted against it included all 193 House Democrats and 20 Republican members. The bill now heads to the Senate, where it's expected to face significant changes. But what's in the bill that was passed Thursday? The plan is largely similar to the bill crafted by GOP leaders earlier this year that was pulled from the House floor in March due to insufficient support. Lawmakers made a few crucial changes, however, won support from some members who didn't back the earlier legislation. Here's a brief rundown of what's in the House GOP health care bill, and how it could affect you. Revamped insurance tax credits Under Obamacare, individuals in the private health insurance market obtain a tax credit to help them afford coverage. The size of that subsidy is determined by a variety of factors, including your age, where you live, and how much money you earn. Coverage is subsidized for anyone earning between 100 percent and 400 percent of the poverty level, with higher-earning individuals receiving less generous subsidies. Politico's Dan Diamond explains why Republicans are confident the American Health Care Act will pass the House. The Republican plan would replace that system with a tax credit indexed mainly to a person's age – from a minimum of $2,000 annually for a young person to a maximum of $4,000 annually for someone in their 60s who can't yet access Medicare.  The tax credit would also diminish as income increases. An individual earning up to $75,000 or a household earning $150,000 would receive the full credit, but it would gradually decrease as for those with higher incomes, disappearing entirely for individuals with incomes above $215,000 and households with incomes above $290,000. In an analysis of the earlier version of the GOP bill, the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation examined how the change could shift costs within the health insurance market. " Generally, people who are older, lower-income, or live in high-premium areas (like Alaska and Arizona) receive larger tax credits under [ Obamacare] than they would under the American Health Care Act replacement," the group explained in their analysis. " Conversely, some people who are younger, higher-income, or live in low-premium areas (like Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Washington) may receive larger assistance under the replacement plan." A "continuous coverage requirement" instead of an individual mandate The Republican plan does away with Obamacare's requirement for individuals to purchase health insurance or pay a tax penalty to the government. However, it replaces that provision with another designed to incentive people to acquire and maintain health insurance.  Under the GOP health care bill, any person who goes without insurance for more than two months would be charged an additional 30 percent in premiums for one year when they re-enter the insurance market. One difference: that penalty would be paid directly to the insurers, rather than the government, as is currently the case. Medicaid cuts and transfer to states The GOP plan would dramatically transform Medicaid, the government-provided health insurance program for poorer Americans. Under Obamacare, states had the option to expand Medicaid by offering the program to people with incomes up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level. Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia opted to do so. The Trump administration has used Arizona as a case study on the negative effects of Obamacare, as some premiums there have risen sharply. But th... The GOP plan would freeze Medicaid expansion in 2020. After that time, individuals who qualified for the program in its current form would be allowed to stay on the rolls, but if they leave the program, they wouldn't be allowed back in. The GOP plan would also change the formula used to determine how much money the federal government contributes to the program. Business Insider's Harrison Jacobs offered a concise breakdown of the change. Under current law, he wrote, " Anyone who meets the eligibility requirements [for Medicaid] has a right to enroll, and if costs go up because of new, expensive treatments or increasing healthcare needs, states receive more federal money." The GOP plan, Jacobs explained, would "change the federal Medicaid funding to a per-capita spending cap, meaning the federal government would send states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, regardless of whether that would cover needs or care, starting in 2020." The upshot of that change in the funding formula? The government would save roughly $880 billion in Medicaid spending over the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office -- but those  savings could leave poorer Americans with less access to health care. The bill gives states the option to receive Medicaid funding as a block grant, rather than a dedicated funding stream. Proponents argue the change would give states more flexibility in administering the program, but critics worry it could erode Medicaid's funding -- and its ability to offer coverage -- over time.  The bill also allows states to impose a work requirement for able-bodied adult Medicaid recipients, and it would allow the federal government to offer higher payments to states to cover older and disabled Medicaid beneficiaries. Allow states to opt out of some insurance regulations Obamacare placed a number of regulations on insurance companies, like a ban on insurers declining to offer coverage to people with pre-existing conditions, a ban on insurers placing a lifetime cap on the amount of coverage someone can receive and a series of minimum coverage requirements that stipulate certain kinds of medical care that insurance policies must cover. In his interview on " Face The Nation," President Trump vowed that any health care reform would guarantee coverage for people with pre-existing co... The House GOP bill would roll back these regulations by allowing states to "opt out," or cease requiring insurers in their state to abide by them. Republicans have argued this could lower costs and expand the range of available insurance plans, but they've been sensitive to criticism that the bill would leave Americans with pre-existing conditions without access to coverage. To address that, the House GOP bill allocates $138 billion over the next 10 years to help states and insurers set up "high-risk pools" that could extend coverage to people whose pre-existing medical conditions might prevent them from obtaining coverage otherwise. It's unclear whether that proposal will be sufficient. As the New York Times notes, " The bill doesn't explain exactly how these high-risk pools would work. We also don't know how many states would choose to waive the Obamacare insurance regulations and set up high-risk pools instead. But several researchers have compiled estimates on what a well-run high-risk pool would cost, and $138 billion probably wouldn't be enough." The House GOP bill does keep at least one insurance reform from Obamacare intact: a requirement that young adults be allowed to stay on their parents' insurance plan through age 26. Repeal of Obamacare's tax increases The House GOP bill would do away with a number of tax hikes that helped finance the cost of Obamacare, including a tax on some medical device manufacturers, a hike in payroll taxes and investment income taxes for wealthy households, a tax on indoor tanning, and a tax on high-deductible " Cadillac" insurance plans. Allow insurers to charge older Americans more Obamacare instituted a requirement that insurers could charge older Americans no more than three times what they charge younger Americans. The House GOP bill would allow insurers to charge older Americans up to five times as much as they charge younger Americans. And it would allow states to seek a waiver to permit insurers to charge older customers even more. How would this bill impact the uninsured rate? The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the earlier version of the GOP health care bill would cause 24 million Americans to lose health insurance coverage over a decade. The CBO did not have time to score the revised version of the bill before the House voted on it Thursday, but it's unlikely their earlier estimate would drastically change. What would be the impact on the budget deficit? An earlier version of the House GOP bill scored by the CBO would have reduced the budget deficit by $150 billion over 10 years, relative to current law. Again, the CBO did not issue a score on today's bill before the vote, but it's likely the fiscal impact of this latest proposal will be similar to that of earlier versions. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-says-australias-health-care-beats-the-us-hes-right/
Just hours after House Republicans moved forward with their new health plan, President Donald Trump took a moment to praise a completely different health-care system. Australia, he said, has "better health care than we do." Mr. Trump's assessment of Australia's health-care system came as he also promised the American Health Care Act ( ACHA) would be "fantastic health care." Republicans in the House on Thursday voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with the ACHA. The president's statements beg two questions: just how does Australia's health-care system compare to the current U. S. system, and will the ACHA help raise U. S. standards?  By many measures, Australia's health-care system provides better outcomes at a lower cost than the U. S. system, according to data tracked by the Peterson- Kaiser Health System Tracker. Australia's government provides free or subsidized health care for Australian citizens as well as those with permanent visas, providing what's considered universal health care. In the U. S., about one in 10 residents lacks health insurance, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Of course the Australians have better healthcare than we do --everybody does. Obama Care is dead! But our healthcare will soon be great.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 5, 2017 The U. S. has the lowest life expectancy and the highest disease burden among comparable developed countries, including Australia, the Peterson- Kaiser Health System Tracker notes. The U. S. spends about $8,745 per capita on health care costs, compared with less than half that -- $3,997 per person -- in Australia. " The U. S. has the highest disease burden rate among comparable countries," said Cynthia Cox, an associate director for health policy and economics research at the Kaiser Foundations. " That's a sign the health-care system is working better in Australia than the U. S." To be sure, the statistics on Americans' shorter life spans and higher rates of disease could be tied to behaviors or other issues, such as pollution or income inequality. America's high level of income inequality is tied to stark disparities in lifespans between the rich and poor, with researchers finding that the richest 1 percent of U. S. men now live 14.6 years longer than the bottom 1 percent.  Americans lose more days of their lives due to disability compared to other developed countries. Peterson- Kaiser Health System Tracker A majority of Americans believe the federal government has a responsibility to ensure health-care coverage, according to a January poll from Pew Research Center. The Affordable Care Act, which is now in jeopardy, was the closest the country has ever gotten to universal health care, Cox said. " If anything, we would be going back to the way things were before the Affordable Care Act" if the ACHA becomes law, Cox said.  Australia pays for its health-care plan by taxing its residents between 2 percent to 3.5 percent of their income. Almost six out of 10 adult Australians also carry private health insurance, which covers treatment that's not included in the public insurance, such as dental care, while also providing more options for hospital choice and doctors.  In a 2014 Commonwealth Fund study of health care in 11 countries including Australia and the U. S., the U. S. ranked last. American also ranked last in 2010, 2007, 2006 and 2004. Australia was No. 4, while the top-rated healthcare system was in the U. K.  Boosters of America's health-care system sometimes point to the longer wait times for treatment that some patients can encounter in countries with universal health-care plans. About three-quarters of Americans are able to see a specialist within four weeks, compared with 80 percent of U. K. residents. About 51 percent of Australians are able to see a specialist within four weeks.  The ACHA may lead to lower health-care spending, but not because the law would make the American system more efficient. The Congressional Budget Office examined the original version of the House bill, but hasn't yet analyzed the version just passed. It estimated that 24 million Americans would be without health coverage a decade after the ACA's repeal. " A large part of it would be fewer people are insured, so they don't have access to health care and aren't spending a lot on health care," Cox noted. " Health outcomes is a bigger question that would take a  longer time to see." Find out what activities and attractions make these 20 cities and town some of the best places to retire around the world
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/gop-congressman-nobody-dies-because-they-dont-have-access-to-health-care/
Idaho Republican Rep. Raul Labrador sparked outrage from his audience and online after saying "nobody dies" for lack of health care access in a town hall Friday night at Lewis- Clark State College in Lewiston, Idaho.  Labrador made the comments the day after the U. S. House passed a GOP-led health care bill repealing and replacing chunks of Obamacare. Labrador, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, was responding to an audience member who expressed concern about how the bill would affect Medicaid recipients. " You are mandating people on Medicaid accept dying. You are making a mandate that will kill people," the audience member said, before being drowned out by Labrador's response." No one wants anybody to die," Labrador said. " You know, that line is so indefensible. Nobody dies because they don't have access to health care." The line immediately drew audible outrage from the crowd, as well as ire from social media users. Labrador was similarly booed for a comment he made last month that health care isn't a "basic human right." Chief political correspondent for Slate and CBS News political contributor, Jamelle Bouie, joins " CBS This Morning: Saturday" to discuss what's n... Former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney was fiercely criticized for a similar comment he made in 2012." We don't have people that become ill, who die in their apartment because they don't have insurance," the former Massachusetts governor told editors of the Columbus Dispatch.  It's unclear how many people would lose health insurance under the current version of GOP plan, which has yet to be scored by the Congressional Budget Office.  A 2009 study published by the American Journal of Public Health before Obamacare became law, said 45,000 people die annually from lack of health insurance.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/new-york-ag-says-hell-sue-if-senate-passes-unconstitutional-obamacare-repeal/
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman issued a warning to Congress -- if the Senate passes the House's legislation repealing and replacing Obamacare, he may sue." I hope it'll never become law. I hope we'll be able to save a lot of time and trouble and not have to bring this litigation," Schneiderman said in an interview with CNN's Erin Burnett Friday night.  Schneiderman criticized the American Health Care Act, which the House passed Thursday, as not only "bad public policy" but "unconstitutional." Schneiderman criticized the bill's ban on government funding for Planned Parenthood, and provision that insurance plans covering abortions aren't "qualified" health plans. The GOP's health care bill that House Republicans passed includes a provision that could defund Planned Parenthood. The group's Executive Vice Pr... " Federal funds aren't used for abortions now," Schneiderman said. " This is an effort to cut off funding for breast cancer screenings, education on sexually transmitted disease -- it imposes an undue burden on women's constitutional rights."" We are beseeching the Senate to make sure this never becomes the law of the land," Schneiderman added.  It's unlikely the House's bill will pass the Senate in its current form, as senators indicated they will be making changes to the bill, if not re-writing it entirely.  Mr. Trump expressed confidence Thursday night in New York that the health bill would pass the Senate." I think we'll get it through," he said, according to the White House pool report. "... The Senate is looking forward to getting it. [ Senate Majority Leader] Mitch Mc Connell knows how to do things." Vox senior editor Sarah Kliff joins " CBS This Morning: Saturday" from Washington to discuss why the health care bill is not quite what President ... Schneiderman has made it part of his mission to hold the Trump administration accountable. Last month, he began legal proceedings against the Trump administration for "violating federal law" by delaying energy efficiency standards for some products." I will continue to use the full force of my office to compel the Trump administration to live up to its obligations to the law and the people of New York," Schneiderman said in a news release announcing the legal proceedings.  He is also supporting efforts to make Mr. Trump's tax returns public. A bill from a New York state senator would force the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance to release New York State income tax returns for all government officials elected statewide -- including the president of the United States.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/white-house-dismisses-concerns-over-steep-potential-cuts-to-drug-czar-office/
White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders talks to the media during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, Friday, May 5, 2017. The White House is pushing back against criticism over a proposed 95 percent cut to the budget of the Office of National Drug Control Policy ( ONDCP), arguing the federal government remains committed to fighting the opioid epidemic. In a draft version of a budget memo obtained by CBS News on Friday, the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB) proposed cutting nearly half the staff in the " Druz Czar" office in fiscal year 2018 ( FY18), as well as a number of grant programs and other agency functions.  One of ONDCP's grant programs funds the nation's largest drug prevention program, supporting 5,000 local anti-drug community efforts across the country. The program has enjoyed widespread support from members of both parties. At the White House briefing on Friday, deputy press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters that she wasn't going to get ahead of budget conversations, but claimed that the opioid epidemic is "a top priority" for Mr. Trump. President Trump has given a new commission 90 days to come up with ideas to address the deadliest drug crisis in American history. More than 52,0... John Czwartacki, the OMB communications director, told CBS News that the FY18 budget is still under review and not a finalized document." Reports that suggest budgetary numbers or policy decisions are premature and subject to change before the late May publication of the budget," he wrote in an email. A senior administration official suggested that if the White House decided to strip ONDCP of it's agency mandate to coordinate collaboration between federal and local law enforcement and public health organizations, transitioning it into an office like the National Security Council or National Economic Council. The official said cuts would "by no means signal the commitment to winning the war on drugs is lessened." The senior administration official pointed to dozens of drug programs across many federal agencies as evidence that the White House is committed to anti-drug efforts, even if the ONDCP loses its ability to issue grants. But Rafael Lemaitre, a former top spokesman for the ONDCP, countered that the reason the ONDCP was created in the first place was to coordinate these programs into one comprehensive strategy for the president. The city of Everett, Washington, is filing a lawsuit against Purdue Pharma, the maker of the painkiller Oxycontin, alleging the company supplied ... " Creating chaos at ONDCP or eliminating the agency will mean that each of the bureaucrats who run each those long list of programs and are spread out across government will have no single point of contact or direction to follow," Lemaitre said. " Efforts will be duplicated. Presidential priorities won't be followed. Ineffective programs will continue."" Without ONDCP, it'll be like herding cats," he added. Scores of former government officials, doctors, community based organizations, law enforcement officials and officials at drug treatment and prevention programs agree. In a letter to senior White House adviser Reed Cordish, dozens called on the White House to maintain ONDCP's funding and strong national influence." As we have written before, ONDCP brings essential expertise to the table on complex drug issues, expertise that would otherwise be missing or dispersed across multiple agencies," the letter states. " ONDCP holds all federal, state, and local agencies accountable for achieving specific goals to reduce drug trafficking, use, and other consequences." Kevin Sabet, the head of Smart Approaches to Marijuana and a three-time ONDCP adviser who distributed the letter, did not mince words.  " To slash anti-drug finding during this opiate and marijuana crisis is exactly the wrong move at the wrong time," he said.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/epa-head-scott-pruitt-recuses-himself-from-lawsuits-against-the-epa-he-pursued/
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is recusing himself from a number of active lawsuits against the EPA he pursued as Oklahoma's attorney general— including the Clean Power Plan and Waters of the United States suits, according to a memo environmental and energy publication E& E News obtained under a Freedom of Information Act request. " To demonstrate my profound commitment to carrying out my ethical responsibilities, while I am the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, I will not participate in any active cases in which Oklahoma is a party, petitioner or intervenor, including the following," Pruitt wrote in the May 4 memo to EPA's acting assistant administrators, acting general counsel, inspector general and acting regional administrators, before listing 12 cases from which he is recusing himself.  Pruitt, a longtime critic of the EPA while serving as Oklahoma's attorney general, joined a collection of attorneys general suing the EPA over the Clean Power Plan, the key component of former President Barack Obama's climate change agenda. Last week, a federal appeals court granted President Donald Trump's request to halt the lawsuit, effectively sending the rule back to the EPA for review and likely quashing the measure that aimed to combat carbon dioxide emissions from coal power plants.  Pruitt also sued the EPA in 2015 over the Waters of the United States, or " WOTUS," rule, which expanded the definition of what qualifies as a federal body of water. But Mr. Trump signed an executive order in February directing the EPA and the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers to review and rescind the rule. President Trump's EPA administrator, who sued the agency repeatedly in his former job, has touched off a fierce new argument over climate change.... Pruitt's memo also recuses him from litigation involving Volkswagen, including the criminal case against the company for allegedly cheating on emissions tests. " Thus far, I have not participated in any of the cases listed in this recusal statement officially at all and will continue to recuse for now," Pruitt wrote. " In the event that I wish to participate, I will seek an ethics determination from the (designated agency ethics officer), which will appeal the federal partiality set forth" in federal law.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/ny-state-senators-bill-would-force-trump-tax-returns-to-go-public/
A New York state senator has filed a bill that would require the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance to release New York State income tax returns for all government officials elected statewide — including the president of the United States. " If lawmakers in Washington won't force president Trump to release his tax returns, lawmakers in Albany should do it instead," Democratic state Sen. Brad Hoylman, who introduced the bill, said in a recent statement. " New Yorkers deserve to know if statewide officials — including Trump — pay their fair share of taxes." Hoylman's proposed legislation requires the New York Taxation Department's website to post current officials' preceding five years' worth of tax returns within 30 days of the bill's passage, or in the case of future officials, within 30 days of taking the oath of office. It would apply to all records the department has on file for the president, vice president, U. S. senators from New York, the governor, lieutenant governor, comptroller and attorney general. President Trump is legally a resident of New York. " We're very good shape on tax reform," President Trump said on Tuesday. But there's still a central hurdle, and it has to do with Trump himself. ... Hoylman also filed another piece of legislation in December, the T. R. U. M. P. ( Tax Returns Uniformly Made Public) Act, requiring presidential and vice presidential candidates to disclose at least five years' worth of federal income tax returns to appear on the ballot in New York state and receive votes from New York's representatives in the Electoral College.  Both bills are currently in committee.  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie recently vetoed legislation that would force presidential and vice-presidential candidates for office to file a copy of their federal income tax returns in order to appear on the state's ballot. Gov. Christie, a frequent ally to President Donald Trump, called the bill a "transparent political stunt masquerading as a bill" in a forceful veto statement on Monday, calling it "politics at its worst." The White House continues to face pressure to release the president's tax returns, particularly as the administration rolls out its plan for tax cuts. Secretary of Treasury Steve Mnuchin said last week that Mr. Trump has "no intention" of releasing his returns, although Mr. Trump told CBS News' " Face The Nation" on Sunday that he never spoke with Mnuchin about his returns.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/emmanuel-macron-campaign-says-its-victim-of-a-massive-hack/
Emmanuel Macron, head of the political movement En Marche, or Onwards, and candidate in the French presidential election, celebrates on stage at the Parc des Expositions hall in Paris after partial results in the election's first round April 23, 2017. The campaign of leading French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron says it is the victim of a "massive and coordinated" hacking attack. In a statement late Friday night, Macron's En Marche! ( Onwards!) Movement said emails and financial documents that were hacked a few weeks ago are now being circulated on social media. But, the campaign said, some of the documents online have been mixed with false documents. It's unclear who is behind the alleged attack at this time.  Russia-linked hackers targeting French election, security firm says Could Marine Le Pen beat the odds and win the French election? The campaign's announcement came moments before a law takes effect that bans candidates from campaigning in the hours before the election. Due to this law, which prohibites any commentary that could influence the election, Macron's team may be unable to respond to any additional developments leading up to Sunday's election. The campaign said whoever is behind the leaked documents is trying to "seed doubt and disinformation" and destabilize Sunday's presidential runoff, comparing it to emails leaked from Hillary Clinton's U. S. presidential campaign. Sunday's presidential election in France could have far-reaching consequences for the rest of Europe. Pre-election polls have centrist Emmanuel M... Wiki Leaks released thousands of emails from members of former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's campaign virtually every day leading up to the Nov. 8, 2016, election, giving consistent new negative material that may have damaged Clinton's chances against now- President Trump.  In the case of the French election, voters have very little time to digest any information from the hacking. According to a tweet by French polling firm Ifop- Fiducial Friday afternoon, Macron is leading with 63 percent of votes, compared with far-right candidate Marine Le Pen's 37 percent -- the largest lead for Macron reported in weeks.  Former President Obama endorsed Macron earlier this week. " I know that you face many challenges and I want all of my friends in France to know how much I am rooting for your success, because of how important this election is, I also want you to know that I am supporting Emmanuel Macron to lead you forward," Obama said in a video he posted to Twitter Thursday. L'espoir est en marche. Merci @ Barack Obama. Emmanuel Macron (@ Emmanuel Macron) May 4, 2017
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/how-gop-health-bill-would-impact-americans-on-medicaid/
WASHINGTON -- One day after House Republicans passed a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, Republicans in the Senate said they're writing their own bill -- from scratch. The House bill would have profound impacts on Americans who get their health care through Medicaid. Dr. Gwen Graddy runs a program called Pace, providing comprehensive care for 600 frail and elderly patients in Detroit. Like nearly 70 million Americans, they are all enrolled in Medicaid. The GOP's health care bill that House Republicans passed includes a provision that could defund Planned Parenthood. The group's Executive Vice Pr... Without it, "a number of these people would prematurely end up in nursing homes," Graddy says." Or number two, these people would end up in emergency rooms getting their primary care and ultimately end up in hospitals receiving care," she says. The GOP plan that passed Thursday would, for the first time, place caps on federal Medicaid funding to states starting in 2020. The bill would halt federal payments for Obamacare's expansion of Medicaid to people living just above the poverty line. The 32 states that participated in that expansion would now have to either fund that coverage themselves, cut benefits or cut enrollment. Michigan is one of those states. The GOP health care bill is heading to the Senate after narrowly passing the House. Associate Editor at The Hill Jesse Byrnes joins CBSN to discu... " We're talking about the elderly, we're talking about children, we're talking about disabled, we're talking about mental illness," Graddy says. " Any individual that would be eligible for the benefits that would come out of a Medicaid program would be limited in what's available for them." All told, the GOP bill would cut an estimated $900 billion from Medicaid over the next 10 years, reducing Medicaid's ranks by 14 million people. Many Republicans, like Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, argue there's no choice.  " We do not have enough for Medicare, we do not have enough for Social Security, we do not have enough for Medicaid -- before we got started on the expansion of Medicaid," Paul said Friday during a speech at the Cato Institute. House Republicans say their Medicaid reforms would give states more flexibility. But many Republican governors oppose the cuts. One even called them "devastating." And they are urging the Senate to make some serious changes to that bill. Pleasant Run Elementary's 4th grade team didn't know the first thing about robotics when it was started last fall Army Spc. Hilda Clayton took a photo in the split-second between when a mortar tube accidentally exploded and the blast killed her
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/white-house-rape-case-firestorm-charges-dropped/
Prosecutors in Maryland said Friday they are dropping rape charges against two teenagers -- undocumented immigrants -- in a case that the White House used to promote President Trump's deportation policy." It's horrendous and horrible and disgusting what this young woman in Rockville went through," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said in March.  Rape charges dropped against both teens in Rockville high school case  Spicer was commenting on a case at Rockville High School in Maryland, just outside of Washington, in which two recent immigrants from Central America, ages 17 and 18, were charged with raping a 14-year-old girl in a school bathroom. Immigration officials say one of two students charged with raping a 14-year-old girl in a high school bathroom in Maryland entered the U. S. illeg... " Part of the reason that the president has made illegal immigration and crackdown such a big deal is because of tragedies like this," Spicer said. " Immigration plays its toll on our people if it's not done legally." His remarks drew national attention to the case and contributed to a firestorm of anti-immigrant criticism. But the teenagers' lawyers said the sex was consensual and was even planned in advance with the young girl. On Friday, State's Attorney John Mc Carthy announced the charges were being dropped." We have concluded that the facts in this case do not support the original charges filed in this matter," Mc Carthy said. " This case blew up because they immediately assumed there were immigrants and, as a result, they immediately assumed they were rapists," says Maria Mena, the lawyer for the 17-year-old. Rape charges have been dropped against two undocumented teenagers in Maryland, weeks after the White House used the case as an example for the immigration crackdown. Deputy press secretary Sarah Sanders, filling in Friday for Spicer, was asked if White House rhetoric about immigration is encouraging people to jump to conclusions against immigrants." Not at all. The president has been incredibly outspoken against crime in any form, fashion," Sanders said.  Both teens are still in custody and they could be facing lengthy deportation proceedings. Pleasant Run Elementary's 4th grade team didn't know the first thing about robotics when it was started last fall Army Spc. Hilda Clayton took a photo in the split-second between when a mortar tube accidentally exploded and the blast killed her
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/acha-pre-existing-conditions-rape-pregnancy/
A number of news articles and social media posts claim that pregnancy, sexual assault and domestic violence could be considered "pre-existing conditions" that make it hard to keep insurance coverage under the Republican health care bill. Are those alarming claims really true? The bill doesn't specifically refer to any of these things, and some of the headlines suggesting that it does are misleading. But the bill would allow insurers, in limited circumstances, to charge people more if they have a pre-existing condition — a health issue that existed before the patient's coverage starts, if that person has had a lapse in insurance. The health care bill passed by House Republicans covers pre-existing conditions, but not the way Obamacare does. Instead, the bill would allow st... Under the current health care law — the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare — insurers are not allowed to charge more or deny coverage for pre-existing conditions. The GOP health plan the passed the House Thursday — called the American Health Care Act ( AHCA) — would allow states to seek a waiver from that rule. It would fund a system of "high-risk pools" to offer assistance to patients instead, but many are concerned that won't be enough. Twitter is overflowing with lists of pre-existing conditions, patient testimonials and personal stories of health struggles with the hashtag # IAm APreexisting Condition. People living with a host of medical conditions are worried about the future of their coverage if the Republican plan becomes law.  Concern has focused in particular on women's health issues, and especially pregnancy. Claims that rape victims could lose their coverage have also stirred outrage. Here's a fact check: Claim: Pregnancy is a pre-existing condition Fact: States are likely to leave it to insurers to define pre-existing conditions, and prior to Obamacare, pregnancy was considered a pre-existing condition.  One of the bigger changes to health care under the Republican plan is that it would allow insurers to consider the health risk of customers applying for new coverage if they had a recent gap in coverage. ( This would only be allowed in states that are granted a federal waiver.) Carrying a baby carries some risk, so insurance companies see pregnant women as risker — and more expensive — customers when they apply for coverage.  Before the Affordable Care Act, insurers frequently denied coverage because of pregnancy. They can no longer do that. But, under the Republican bill, insurers may be able to charge higher prices for a limited time due to a person's recent medical history. Claim: Sexual assault is a pre-existing condition Fact: The House bill does not specifically designate sexual assault as pre-existing condition, but it could allow insurers to charge more for people with health issues such as PTSD or a sexually transmitted infection resulting from rape. When they look at pre-existing conditions, insurance companies consider people's medical diagnoses, not how they got injured or sick. For example, if someone sees a therapist to deal with trauma or anxiety after an assault, the condition that the therapist treats might be considered pre-existing but the rape itself would not. Similarly, as Politi Fact points out, if someone were pricked with a used needle or had consensual sex with someone they later learned had HIV, that person might take HIV preventative medications — just as a victim of sexual assault might. Regardless of the circumstances, because the person took that medication, they might have trouble purchasing health insurance on the open market. " This is not something specific about sexual assault," Urban Institute senior fellow Linda Blumberg told Politi Fact. " But to the extent victims of sexual assault are needing to take this ( HIV) medication, they're very vulnerable in terms of getting insurance coverage in the future." Insurers have generally considered conditions treated within three months of the start of coverage to be pre-existing, health care industry consultant Robert Laszewski said. What's next? The American Health Care Act was narrowly approved in the House of Representatives on Thursday; no Democrats voted in favor and 20 Republicans voted against it. The White House says it expects the Senate to embrace the main provisions of the bill, but senators have indicated that they will craft their own version, potentially including substantial changes. " We expect there to be some changes, but we expect the principles and the main pillars of the health care bill as it exists now to remain the same," deputy White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters at the daily briefing Friday. Sanders said there is currently no deadline for the Senate to vote on its version bill.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/reporters-scour-instagram-to-keep-up-on-trump-weekend-outings/
Donald Trump takes a swing as he officially opens his new multimillion-pound Trump International Golf Links course in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, on July 10, 2012. President Donald Trump's White House has kept reporters at arm's length more than any presidential administration in recent memory. So for reporters covering the summer and winter White Houses in Mar- A- Lago and Bedminster, where Trump's daily activities are largely kept secret from the press, stalking Instagram has become the one of the best windows into Mr. Trump's mysterious weekend life – and his golf habits. The technique was deployed once again this weekend, when the White House Press corps was told that Mr. Trump was "having meetings and taking calls" on Saturday at the Trump National Golf Course in Bedminster, New Jersey. White House budget director Mick Mulvaney says if it takes a government shutdown to get America's spending in order, " So be it." But an afternoon Instagram post from inside the club, posted by an account named "40primrose," provided a more well rounded story. The Instagram user posted a photo on his public account on Saturday of the president, wearing a white golf shirt and black slacks, walking on a putting green holding a 4 or 5 iron. The post was geo-tagged to his Bedminster golf course." Seis de Mayo w POTUS," the caption read, which in English translates to "the 6th of May" with the President. At 5:37 p.m., Los Angeles Times reporter Mike Memoli tweeted a screenshot of the Instagram post. It was quickly circulated among White House reporters who were exiled six miles away from the golf club in Branchburg, New Jersey - a lone tidbit of information trickling out of Trump's weekend. But shortly thereafter, the photo and account were deleted - again leaving the public in the dark about the president's whereabouts. The White House did not confirm the content of the image.  So reporters have resorted to scouring Instagram's useful location-based search feature, hunting for signs of what the president is up to. Mr. Trump has now spent eight weekends at Trump-owned properties in Florida, and now New Jersey, since taking office in the White House, at considerable taxpayer expense. He's spent the other eight weekends at the White House, where he's also found time to golf at his course in Potomac Falls, Virginia.  He's made 18 golf outings as President, most of which the White House has refused to confirm or comment on. Just once the President confirmed a golf outing himself, tweeting in February about an outing with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and professional golfer Ernie Els in West Palm Beach.  Many of these golf trips have been discovered on Instagram, through photos posted by club members, supporters and passers-by who have encountered Trump on the links. At the end of March, after photos surfaced on Instagram and Twitter of Mr. Trump sporting a golf glove at Trump International Golf in West Palm Beach, a White House spokesperson conceded that the President "may have hit a few balls today," but would not confirm if he had played.  In late March, Instagram user Anthony Bartolomei posted a story showing the President on his Virginia golf course. Mr. Trump is seen walking through the clubhouse in golf cleats and another photo is of his golf cart from across the green. The White House would not confirm that Mr. Trump had golfed, saying that they had told reporters all they knew -- "that he had meetings." White House press secretary Sean Spicer defended Mr. Trump's trips to golf clubs last month. There are new questions about whom President Trump has been meeting with at Mar-a- Lago, his exclusive Florida club. Access at the resort is unpar... " Just because you go somewhere doesn't mean you did it," Spicer said in a briefing. Staff's at times elaborate efforts to keep Mr. Trump' golf game a secret, however, has been foiled time and time again because of social media.   Instagram has also provided a window into other aspects of the exclusive Trump golf clubs, a seemingly popular place for members to host lavish weddings. After Mr. Trump held a joint press conference in February to address North Korea's ballistic missile test with Japanese Prime Minister Abe during his visit, the President stopped by Vanessa Falk and Carl Linder's wedding and posed for pictures. Instagram user ' John Clay Reed' posted a photo of Mr. Trump with the bride and bridal party, clad in fuscia dresses, flashing thumbs ups." Making weddings great again!! Vanessa & Carl Lindner IV," the caption read. Making weddings great again!! Vanessa & Carl Lindner IV A post shared by John Reed (@johnclayreed) on Feb 12, 2017 at 6:24pm PST Another Instagram account, that of Bedminister horticulturist Leirion Sorensen, gives viewers a look at the lush backyard of Mr. Trump's New Jersey club. She recently posted pictures of an edible garden in bloom on the grounds. This past Sunday, the White House press corps received no information on the President's activities aside from his departure time from New Jersey. But a food blogger posted pictures of items Mr. Trump could potentially be eating during his stay, showing various entrees from the club's restaurant: a tuna tartare over guacamole, fig jam, goat cheese and prosciutto flatbread, and a chicken harissa soup.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/sally-yates-to-testify-about-russia-attempts-to-interfere-in-us-election/
BRANCHBURG, N. J. -- Sally Yates, a top Justice Department official in the Obama administration, is set to testify on Monday about Russia's attempts to interfere in the presidential election.  Yates was fired by the Trump administration in January after refusing to defend the president's travel ban in court. Ahead of Monday's Senate Judiciary hearing on Russia, President Trump focused on Democrats Sunday morning. " When will the Fake Media ask about the Dems dealings with Russia & why the DNC wouldn't allow the FBI to check their server or investigate?" he tweeted. When will the Fake Media ask about the Dems dealings with Russia & why the DNC wouldn't allow the FBI to check their server or investigate?— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 7, 2017 Yates will testify for the first time about her warnings to the Trump White House regarding former national security adviser, Gen. Michael Flynn. " She apparently has some information as to who knew what when, that she is willing to share," said Senate Judiciary Committee member Dianne Feinstein.  Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates speaks during a news conference at the Justice Department in Washington June 28, 2016. " The new national security adviser talking to ambassadors from around the world, there's nothing wrong with that," said Republican committee member, Senator Roy Blunt. Blunt said Flynn's contacts aren't suspicious, but lying about it is. " What was particularly wrong was General Flynn not being truthful about the substance of what he said," Blunt added, speaking on NBC's " Meet the Press." Meanwhile, President Trump's son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, is facing questions about conflicts of interest as reports emerged that his sister, Nicole Meyer, spent the weekend promoting the family business and controversial EB-5 visas in China. The visas grant wealthy foreigners and their families a conditional two-year green card after investing at least $500,000 in U. S. businesses.  In a statement, his personal lawyer told CBS News that Kushner "has no involvement" with his previous companies, "divested his interests," and is not a beneficiary of the family trust. A Kushner Companies spokesperson also sent CBS News a statement apologizing on behalf of Ms. Meyer if "mention of her brother was in any way interpreted as an attempt to lure investors." Pleasant Run Elementary's 4th grade team didn't know the first thing about robotics when it was started last fall Army Spc. Hilda Clayton took a photo in the split-second between when a mortar tube accidentally exploded and the blast killed her
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/jared-kushner-sister-woos-china-golden-visa-investors-eb-5-green-cards/
BEIJING -- The sister of President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner has been in China courting individual investors with a much-criticized federal visa program that provides a path toward obtaining U. S. green cards. Kushner's sister Nicole Meyer promoted One Journal Square, a Kushner Companies' development in Jersey City, at an event Sunday at the Four Seasons Hotel in Shanghai, according to participants. Are the unique roles played by Trump's family in the White House anything new? Report: Jared Kushner in talks to sell real estate tech company The pitch seeks to raise funds from Chinese investors through the U. S. government's EB-5 visa program, which allows permanent U. S. residency for those who finance projects that create a certain amount of jobs. President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner has no diplomatic experience, but he has become Mr. Trump's point person for high-stakes international... The event was organized by Beijing-based immigration services company QWOS and Kushner Companies, according to an advertisement on the Chinese company's website, which says the project is seeking $150 million from 300 EB-5 investors. Kushner, a senior adviser to Trump, stepped down as chief executive of the Kushner Companies in January and has sold stakes in several properties to help allay concerns about conflict of interest. His family's promotional efforts in China come amid widespread criticism of the EB-5 visa program, which has grown popular among wealthy foreigners seeking to move to the U. S. but faces allegations of fraud and misuse. Critics say many of the investments purportedly aimed at assisting poor areas of the U. S. have instead wound up going to projects in more affluent neighborhoods, while many programs have been badly hit by fraud scandals. U. S. lawmakers have been weighing proposed changes to the program, which would likely affect companies such as Kushner Cos. should it want to raise funds from such investors. Earlier this month, Congress extended the EB-5 program in its current form through Sept. 30. Staffers at QWOS' offices in Beijing and Shanghai either refused to comment or did not answer repeated calls. In a statement, his personal lawyer told CBS News that Kushner "has no involvement" with his previous companies, "divested his interests," and is not a beneficiary of the family trust.  A Kushner Companies spokesperson also sent CBS News a statement apologizing on behalf of Ms. Meyer if "mention of her brother was in any way interpreted as an attempt to lure investors." Only on " CBS This Morning," Ivanka Trump spoke to Gayle King in her first interview as assistant to the president. She had to put her own busines... Roberts said in a statement that Kushner has divested his interests in the One Journal Square project by selling them to a family trust of which he, his wife and his children are not beneficiaries, a mechanism suggested by the Office of Government Ethics. " As previously stated, he will recuse from particular matters concerning the EB-5 visa program," the statement said. Now led by Kushner's relatives, the Kushner Companies had earlier been negotiating with China's Anbang Insurance Group to provide what could be hundreds of millions of dollars in equity for redevelopment of a Manhattan office building. Those negotiations, which had drawn criticism from lawmakers and government ethics experts, ended in March. Critics saw it as a potential attempt by China to curry favor with the White House. The Chinese company's advertisements for the Journal Square development described the project as " Kushner 1," with punchy subtitles declaring that it has "government support" and is "founded by celebrity developers," without elaborating. Bi Ting, a 34-year-old woman who attended the Shanghai event, said having the name of the U. S. president's son-in-law associated with it was "a bonus for the project." Bi said Kushner's sister Meyer spoke for more than 10 minutes, describing the history of the Kushner family and the highlights of the project. Meyer spoke to the audience in English, aided by a translator, and didn't take any questions, Bi said. Donald Trump's son-in-law is a real estate mogul and owner of the New York Observer newspaper. He was a trusted campaign adviser to Trump, and ha... The proposed EB-5 investment would account for around 15 percent of the total investment of $976 million required for the project. According to QWOS's advertisements, the development comprises two 66-story towers of 1,476 luxury apartments, as well as commercial and retail space. Another person who attended the forum in Shanghai, who would only give her surname, Wang, said people in the conference said that Trump's son-in-law was a shareholder of the Kushner Companies, but "he has already quit." " I don't know if the connection with the president is good or not, it's hard to say," added Wang, who is from Shanghai. The other participant, Bi, who is pregnant, said she was considering immigrating to America to give her child an academic environment that is "more relaxing; where one can pursue real interests and where the child can do something that they really want to do." Organizers prevented reporters from attending the event, saying it was a private function even though it is publicly advertised. On Saturday, Meyer spoke at a similar promotional conference in Beijing, details of which were first reported by the Washington Post and the New York Times. Earlier this year, Kushner spoke with a group of investors, including the venture-capital firm Fifth Wall Ventures, about selling his stake in Wired Score, a company that certifies buildings with high-quality internet connections. While critics of the Trump administration claim that Mr. Trump has not done enough to remove himself from conflicts of interest between his businesses and the Oval Office, this is one of many efforts from Kushner to divest himself from potentially problematic business ties after taking on the senior level White House official position.  Kushner resigned from more that 260 entities in addition to selling off 58 businesses and investments that lawyers identified as possible conflicts of interest. Meanwhile, Ivanka and her husband have taken on public service and both have met with a several foreign dignitaries.  Kushner even visited Iraq before the secretary of state or national security adviser." His son-in-law Jared Kushner, a senior adviser, is arguably the most powerful person in the White House with a huge portfolio," said Philip Rucker, White House bureau chief for the Washington Post. Just 102 days in, Kushner has been tasked with criminal justice reform, tackling the opioid crisis, Middle East diplomacy and cybersecurity. The unique familial power is having an impact on the West Wing." It can be very dangerous for other advisers to fight with them," Rucker said. " We saw that a few weeks ago where Steve Bannon, the chief strategist, got into a real ideological debate with Jared Kushner and it did not end that well for Steve Bannon." When asked whether these new pivotal roles taken on by Mr. Trump's family are surprising, historian and author Doug Wead said, " No. It is not surprising. It happens over and over and over throughout history. Presidents eventually come to lean on the people who are the most loyal. It ceases to become competence and quickly becomes who can I trust?"
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/condoleezza-rice-vladimir-putin-trying-to-re-establish-russian-greatness/
WASHINGTON -- Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says that Russian President Vladimir Putin is trying to re-establish " Russian greatness" with his assertiveness and aggressiveness abroad. Rice, author of a new book " Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom," says that while there are many things the U. S. needs to cooperate with the Russians on, including the ongoing crisis in North Korea, Putin has not respected certain lines. Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice talks with Face the Nation moderator John Dickerson about her new book, " Democracy: Stories from the L... " The most important thing is to re-establish that the United States is going to defend its allies in NATO under Article 5: ' An attack upon one is an attack upon all', that the United States will not countenance the Russian military threatening our forces by flying very close to our ships or to our planes. I think rebuilding the Defense budget has helped to send that signal," said Rice. Rice added that it's currently a "dangerous time with the Russians," saying that the U. S. needs to continue to send messages that the U. S. "will countenance a Russia that's aggressive against allies and states that shouldn't be threatened by their neighbors."" We've always hoped that the Russians would see their role in the world as one built on the respect that comes from economic power, from soft power. But unfortunately, it's turned to military power again to establish itself. And I do think that we've begun to say to the Russians, for instance, what President Obama did to put rotating forces in the Baltic States and in Poland. That was a good message to the Russians that certain things are not acceptable. The strike in Syria was a good message," said Rice. Condoleezza Rice interview: Full Transcript Rice added that " Democracy takes time and we have to be a little bit more patient, and a little bit more helpful in speaking out for those who are still trying to get there." The former secretary of state discusses her book " Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom" and how she sees the U. S. role in the world. " Most of democracy promotion is really about supporting those within their countries that want to have the simple freedoms that we have: the right to say what you think, to worship as you please, to be free from the knock of the Secret Police at night; places like Liberia, and Ukraine, and other places that are trying to get there. Now, Americans should recognize that of course we're going to defend our interests," added Rice. Rice's comments came as Sen. Joe Manchin, D- West Virginia, said on " Face the Nation" that the Senate Intelligence Committee is determined to find out more about Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. " People that might have said they were involved, to what extent they were involved, to what extent the president might have known about these people, whatever, there is nothing there from that standpoint that we have seen directly linking our president to any of that. But with the other thing being said, there is an awful lot of people surrounding that, whether it be Mike Flynn, Carter Page, Manafort, all these people of high interest. We're going to find out. This is going to be done," said Manchin. Former acting Attorney General, Sally Yates, is also set to provide testimony to lawmakers on just what White House officials knew of the Russian interference in the hopes of shining a light on the Russia probes. Echoing Rice's statements on Democracy, Manchin said that the Russians will "do anything they can to disrupt any time of a freedom or a democracy" and that the U. S. has to make sure it's stopped. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/mulvaney-everybody-will-have-coverage-better-than-obamacare/
WASHINGTON -- White House Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney has confidence in the Trump administration's ability to pass the latest version of the American Health Care Act ( AHCA) through the Senate, and says the bill will provide what he calls "sustainable" coverage for all Americans. Mulvaney, appearing on " Face the Nation" Sunday, said that "everybody will have coverage that's better than what they had under Obamacare." White House budget director Mick Mulvaney discusses the GOP health care bill, the possibility of a government shutdown, and more. " So much of the dialogue today is sort of compared to this ideal of what people thought Obamacare was going to be and what they want it so desperately to be. The real thing to measure it against is against what Obamacare really is," Mulvaney added. The director added that the focus now is on getting the bill passed through the Senate, and said negotiations are ongoing as to what final form the bill will take before arriving to President Trump's desk." The bill that passed out of the House is most likely not going to be the bill that is put in front of the president," he said. " The Senate will have their chance to change the bill, improve the bill. The negotiations will continue again. So I think it's important we reserve judgment on what the president will or won't sign until we know what's in front of him." Mulvaney quipped that the process now is similar to that of the famous Schoolhouse Rock television special on teaching children how a bill becomes a law. " We're going to go through that process, is it ugly? Maybe. Is it slow? Yes. But it's the right way to handle it," said Mulvaney. Sen. Joe Manchin, D- West Virgnia, however, told Dickerson on " Face the Nation" that the bill still needs to be fixed. Sen. Joe Manchin, D- West Virginia, says the people of his state will get "absolutely slammed" by the House Republican health care bill. " The Affordable Care Act, there's not a Democrat who doesn't realize we need to work on the private market," Manchin said. " But you're throwing the baby out with the bathwater. And then you're throwing insult to injury by giving a $575 billion tax cut to the wealthiest Americans while you're cutting $880 billion of service to the poorest Americans. If you want more synergies there, you know, I said this before, John. We have given 20 million people, 20 million people, health care they never had, never bought, don't know the value. We never gave them one word of instructions how to use it, how to use it more effectively, how to use it more efficiently, how to keep themselves healthier." White House budget director Mick Mulvaney says if it takes a government shutdown to get America's spending in order, " So be it." Manchin added, " I just want to work, and sit down, and try to get something done. But no one's asked us." When asked about the lack of the Congressional Budget Office's score of the latest revision of the bill, Mulvaney said the CBO had previously "missed the mark" on how many people would lose coverage. " One of the things you see is that the C. B. O. assumes that once the mandate is gone, people will voluntarily drop off of expanded Medicaid. Think about that for a second. The C. B. O. is assuming in getting to that 24 million people that you get Medicaid for free but once the mandate that you take it is gone you'll voluntarily give up that free benefit. It's just absurd. We've talked it I think when that first analysis came out. The C. B. O., we thought, really missed the mark. They missed the mark a couple years ago on how many people would sign up. And we think they've missed the mark again on how many people will lose coverage," said Mulvaney. Mulvaney urged Republicans currently facing their constituents at home during recess to campaign for support of the bill, saying it should be something " Republicans run to, not away from." John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/pennsylvania-voters-say-nation-still-divided-after-trumps-first-100-days/
Some Pennsylvania voters are finding that in the weeks following President Donald Trump's first 100 days, the nation is as divided as it was during the election." Face the Nation" host John Dickerson traveled to Reading to talk with residents about the issues that matter to them most. Reading, a rural area just outside Philadelphia, faced sweeping job losses due to outsourcing and voters came out in full force for Mr. Trump in the 2016 election. Participants in the focus group told Dickerson that after just a few months in office, Mr. Trump is more concerned about sending a message than crafting policy. Voters used words such as scary, tenuous, uncertain and divisive when asked to describe the climate of the country, saying Mr. Trump's focus has yet to shift toward what voters really care about. " I think his focus has been on the media far too much. I think he commented in almost any interview I see. And I think he needs to realize that he's going to be reported on no matter what. So he should just do a good job, and then maybe they'll report good things about him instead of him being so concerned about his image," said Pennsylvania voter Dale Bond. Supporters of Mr. Trump, however, said the president's "no-nonsense" mentality, a signature during Mr. Trump's campaign, is present in his approach to foreign policy, more specifically his swift action in ordering 59  Tomahawk missiles to hit a Syrian air base in response to the chemical weapons attack. Watch more of what voters had to say about Mr. Trump's job performance in the White House and what they see as the biggest issues the country is facing in the months ahead, on " Face the Nation." John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/condoleezza-rice-interview-full-transcript/
As President Donald Trump continues to craft his foreign policy doctrine, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice offers insight on America's problems on the international stage.  Rice, the author of a new book " Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom," sat down with CBS News' chief Washington correspondent and host of " Face the Nation," John Dickerson, to discuss Russia and the growing tensions between the U. S. and North Korea.  What follows is a full transcript of the interview, which aired Sunday on " Face the Nation." JOHN DICKERSON: And joining us now is former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. She's got a new book out. It's titled " Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom." Welcome, Madam Secretary. RICE: Thank you. JOHN DICKERSON: Very good to have you here. CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Great to be with you. JOHN DICKERSON: Senator Manchin and I were just talking about Russia so I'll start there with the question to you, which is: help Americans, who have heard all the political talk of Russia, how should Americans think about Russia and America's national security interests? CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Well, we have to think about Russia in terms of the last several years under Vladimir Putin. And I think what we're seeing is a president of Russia who has established authoritarianism at home and assertiveness and aggressiveness abroad. He really believes that he is re-establishing Russian greatness, that he has Russia back in the game. But the most important thing is that he hasn't seemed to respect certain lines in doing that. And the most important thing is to re-establish that the United States is going to defend its allies in NATO under Article 5: " An attack upon one is an attack upon all," that the United States will not countenance the Russian military threatening our forces by flying very close to our ships or to our planes. I think rebuilding the Defense budget has helped to send that signal. And by the way, the strike in Syria has helped us send the signal that the United States is going to get leverage back in the Middle East. And so this is a dangerous time with the Russians, but it could also be, once we've established the ground rules, there are many things we need to cooperate with the Russians on including, by the way, the most vexing problem of North Korea, where they too can't be too comforted by a reckless North Korean leader with missiles and nuclear weapons that can reach Russia, as well as eventually the United States. JOHN DICKERSON: I want to get to North Korea in a second. But you write in your book about Russia being a tide that has gone deep into Europe when it's powerful and receded when it's weak. Where is America in terms of breaking that tide? I mean, is it halfway there, quarter of the way there? Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice discusses some of the problems facing American foreign policy today. CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Well, we've always hoped that the Russians would see their role in the world as one built on the respect that comes from economic power, from soft power. But unfortunately, it's turned to military power again to establish itself. And I do think that we've begun to say to the Russians, for instance, what President Obama did to put rotating forces in the Baltic States and in Poland. That was a good message to the Russians that certain things are not acceptable. The strike in Syria was a good message. But we need to continue to send strong messages about Ukraine and other places that we're not going to countenance a Russia that aggressive against allies and states that shouldn't be threatened by their neighbors. JOHN DICKERSON: On North Korea, what should America not countenance? What is the tipping point for--? CONDOLEEZZA RICE: A lot has happened, John, in the last several years. This is now a different regime than even under Kim Jong- Il, the father. Kim Jong- Un is reckless, maybe even a bit unstable. He has made improvements in his nuclear capabilities that look as if he's getting closer to a deliverable nuclear weapon. And perhaps, I don't know what they're telling the president because I don't have the intelligence, but three, five years, the ability to reach the United States, that cannot be countenanced by any American president, I don't care who's in the White House. In order to deal with that you have to change the Chinese calculus, and I think that's what the administration's trying to do. They've worried most about the collapse of the regime, and their long border, and instability on their border. But you have to say to them, " Even if you have to take very tough steps that might ultimately collapse the regime, you have to take steps. Because we will if you don't." And I think that's the message that you're starting to see. JOHN DICKERSON: In your book you are making the case for democracy. We have a president who talks about " America first;" we have a lot of Americans who are wary of U. S. entanglements overseas. Make the case for democracy to those who would be in the more, " Hey, let's just not fuss with the overseas stuff." CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Well, the first thing is to remember what democracy promotion is not. It is not what we did in Iraq and Afghanistan. Those were security issues that we felt we had to solve, and then we said, " Once we've overthrown those dictators we need to give those people a chance toward democracy." But most of democracy promotion is really about supporting those within their countries that want to have the simple freedoms that we have: the right to say what you think, to worship as you please, to be free from the knock of the Secret Police at night; places like Liberia, and Ukraine, and other places that are trying to get there. Now, Americans should recognize that of course we're going to defend our interests. But in the long run, our interests are better served when we have democracies that don't hire child soldiers, that don't harbor terrorists as a matter of state policy, that don't traffic in human beings, that don't start wars with one another. The quintessential example of this is that we took a risk after World War II that a democratic Germany would never threaten its neighbors, that a democratic Japan would never threaten its neighbors. And now not only have they not threatened their neighbors, they are firm allies and they are pillars of international stability. Democracy takes time. One of the points that I make in the book is, took us a long time. That first American Constitution counted my ancestors as three-fifths of a man. That first American Constitution didn't provide my father the right to vote in 1952 in Birmingham, Alabama. But I took an oath of allegiance to that same constitution as a black woman secretary of state with a Jewish woman Supreme Court justice swearing me in. Democracy takes time and we have to be a little bit more patient, and a little bit more helpful in speaking out for those who are still trying to get there. The former secretary of state discusses her book " Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom" and how she sees the U. S. role in the world. JOHN DICKERSON: Let me ask you about that because President Trump, whether it's Erdoğan in Turkey, or el- Sisi in Egypt, or Putin in Russia, the sound of freedom does not seem to come often in conversations with him. Is there a cost from that? CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Well, I think it's early in the administration. There's something about the presidency that you recognize over time the tremendous not just responsibility, but the weight that it carries. And of course we're going to have to deal with the president of Egypt, of course we're going to have to deal with the president of Turkey. But it's well to remember, too, that our interests and our values suggest that when countries that we have good relations with and want good relations with actually reform before there are revolutions, our interests are served too. And I think that if the United States-- democracy promotion actually is very often not very expensive; it's supporting elections, supporting the building of civil societies, supporting a free press abroad. So I have no problem with the president meeting with those leaders; he has to. But we always need to speak for our values as well, and our values are the belief that we were endowed with certain rights by our creator. It can't be true for just us and not for them. JOHN DICKERSON: Final question. Is this president, like all presidents, is bristling against the constraints of democracy that you write a lot about in here. That has caused him to say critical things of the judiciary, of the press, and of Congress and the pace with which they work. How does that play for other countries that say, " You see, you've got a messiness over there. Don't come tell us about how to do this?" CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Well, there's no doubt that presidents get to be president, and then they realize that the founding fathers put all kinds of constraints on the presidency -- Congress, courts, civil society, a press, not to mention Americans who are kind of ungovernable anyway, and it can be frustrating. But I think that when I talk to others who are thinking that I say, " It's also safest when the executive is actually constrained." That's what the founding fathers understood. They also understood that democracies are not perfect. We are imperfect, but our message to the world -- in many ways our best message to the world is that you just get up every day and you keep working to overcome those imperfections. And when you do that you get a chance to enjoy these amazing liberties. And so I'm very grateful to the founding fathers for having given us these institutions. I hope we can encourage others to have the same. JOHN DICKERSON: All right. Secretary Rice, thank you so much for being with us. CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Thank you. JOHN DICKERSON: And we'll be back with our political panel. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/mick-mulvaney-if-fixing-budget-requires-a-shutdown-so-be-it/
WASHINGTON -- White House Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said that President Donald Trump "is willing to think outside the box and do things differently" in order to change Washington, and that if there's a government shutdown, "so be it."" I think the president is frustrated that the process in Washington is broken," Mulvaney said. " What we just did this week was fine and passable but not ideal. The appropriations, the spending process, Congress using the power of the purse has been broken here in Washington for more than 10 years. And I think a good shutdown would be one that could help fix that. It's part of that overall drain-the-swamp mentality about Washington, D. C."" This president is willing to think outside the box and do things differently around here in order to change Washington. And if that comes to a shutdown in September, so be it," he said Sunday on " Face the Nation," when asked about Mr. Trump's threats of a government shutdown in September. White House budget director Mick Mulvaney discusses the GOP health care bill, the possibility of a government shutdown, and more. Mulvaney also said to not underestimate the president. " No one thought the lights would be on this week, but they were," he said. " So don't ever underestimate the president." Sen. Joe Manchin, D- West Virginia, responded to Mulvaney's comments on " Face the Nation," saying that a government shutdown is "un- American" and adding that he hopes "we get" the word shutdown "out of our vocabulary." West Virginia Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin says a government shutdown would be "un- American" and should be avoided. " There is no good shutdown," Manchin said. " There should not even be the talk of a shutdown. John, basically we can do a CR, a continuing resolution, for one day. We can do it for one week. We can do it for one month. But we should at least stay there and get our job done. Shutting it down puts too much, absolute too much, absolute agony on people. And it's just un- American." Lawmakers just averted a government shutdown. Mr. Trump on Friday signed a $1.1 trillion spending deal that funds the government through the rest of the fiscal year. The Senate passed the measure Thursday and House lawmakers approved it on Wednesday. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to " Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-jeanine-pirro-interview/
President Trump, right, gives a thumbs up as Liberty University president, Jerry Falwell Jr., left, watches during of commencement ceremonies at the school in Lynchburg, Va., Saturday, May 13, 2017. President Trump said in an interview with Fox News' Jeanine Pirro that "fake news" about Russia and former FBI Director James Comey had overshadowed some of his accomplishments so far in office.Mr. Trump, who tweeted Friday morning he is considered canceling the daily press briefing, said he would make a decision over the next few weeks if he would cancel them. But he appeared to be saying the press briefings would perhaps be smoother if he himself was at the helm.Trump says it would not be "inappropriate" to ask for Comey's loyaltyTrump says pick for next FBI director could be announced within daysMr. Trump said they would do press briefings differently: "We do it through a piece of paper with a perfectly accurate, beautiful answer. I'll give you an example .. They're asked 100 questions, or 50 questions, or 20 questions -- if they get one out of 50, just a little bit off, 5 percent, 10 percent, 20 percent, it's -- the next day, it's a front page story in every newspaper." New York Times Magazine National Correspondent Mark Leibovich joins CBSN to break down President Trump's tweets about possibly canceling the Whit... But, Mr. Trump said, "I'll tell you what, they'll be very unhappy, because the ratings are so high that I don't know what these networks are going to do. They're going to start to cry .. They get free ratings because of me, and yet they don't treat us well."Mr. Trump said he is considering giving his own press briefings every two weeks. When asked if White House press secretary Sean Spicer would be there tomorrow, Mr. Trump answered "he's doing a great job, he's getting beaten up." "Sarah Huckabee [Sanders] is a lovely young woman. He is a wonderful human -- he's a nice man," Mr. Trump said.Despite the controversy over Comey's firing, Mr. Trump said his week was "great," and he said "there's no good time to fire someone." Former Defense Secretary Robert Gates spoke with Face the Nation about President Trump's decision to fire FBI Director James Comey. "Let's say I did it on January 20, the opening, right, and that would have been the big story as opposed to the inauguration," Mr. Trump said. "I was thinking about it then.  I was thinking about it during this period of time."Mr. Trump said he did not ask Comey for his loyalty, but he said he didn't think it was an inapporpriate thing to ask."I think loyalty to the country, loyalty to the U.S. is important  -- you know, it depends on how you define loyalty, number one," Mr. Trump said.    Mr. Trump insisted Comey "gave [Hillary] a free pass, like nobody's ever, ever gotten a free pass," but Mr. Trump said he was "surpised" by the reaction from the Democrats because he thought it would be a "very popular thing." Although Mr. Trump admitted the Democrats' reaction to Comey's firing could be boiled down to "look, it's politics," he said the Democrats said "we get some political points, we'll go against Trump."Mr. Trump said "there was no collusion" with Russia, but said he wanted "to get to the bottom, if Russia or anybody else is trying to tamper or play with our election." As for Mr. Trump's comments about "tapes" of Comey, Mr. Trump said "I can't talk about that." Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/fbi-agents-association-endorses-mike-rogers-for-fbi-director/
An association representing thousands of current and retired FBI agents is urging President Donald Trump to pick former House Intelligence Committee chairman and former FBI special agent Mike Rogers to lead the bureau after the president fired FBI Director James Comey.Rogers was expected to interview for the position with Attorney General Jeff Sessions just hours after the endorsement.The FBI Agents Association made the announcement Saturday as Department of Justice officials interviewed candidates to fill Comey's shoes. Rogers was an FBI special agent until 1995, when he left the bureau to enter politics. He served in the House from 2001 to 2014. The FBIAA represents more than 13,000 active and retired agents.Then-House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Mike Rogers, R-Mich., speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, in this June 6, 2013 file photo. "Chairman Rogers exemplifies the principles that should be possessed by the next FBI director," FBIAA president Thomas F. O'Connor said in a news release. "It is essential that the next FBI director understand the details of how agents do their important work. Mike Rogers' background as a special agent, veteran of the armed forces and former member of Congress sets him apart as someone capable of confronting the wide array of challenges facing our help ensure that the bureau remains the world's premiere law enforcement agency.""Rogers' unique and diverse experience will allow him to effectively lead the men and women of the Bureau as we work to protect our country from criminal and terrorist threats," O'Connor continued. "During his time in Congress he showed a commitment to confronting threats to our country in a nonpartisan and collaborative manner."Mr. Trump sent Washington into disarray when he abruptly fired Comey Tuesday night with no replacement waiting in the wings. FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe is filling in as acting director until Mr. Trump finds someone to take on the role. On Air Force One Saturday, en route to give a commencement speech at Liberty University in Virginia, Mr. Trump said he may pick a replacement for Comey before leaving for his first foreign trip Friday.Comey was leading the investigation into Russian election meddling, and pressure is building for the administration to appoint a special prosecutor to lead that investigation. Some members of Congress are also calling for Department of Justice Inspector General Michael Horowitz to expand an ongoing investigation into the FBI's handling of the Clinton email investigation to include the decision to fire Comey. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-says-pick-for-next-fbi-director-could-be-announced-within-days/
President Trump said he hopes to "make a fast decision" on the replacement for fired FBI Director James Comey, hinting an announcement could come within days.Mr. Trump told reporters on Air Force One that he may select Comey's successor before leaving for his first foreign trip next week. "We can make a fast decision," Mr. Trump said. "These are outstanding people that are very well known, highest level. So we can make a fast decision."President Donald Trump speaks to members of the media aboard Air Force One before his departure from Andrews Air Force Base, Md., Saturday, May 13, 2017. He made the comments during a flight to Lynchburg, Virginia, where he delivered his first commencement address as president to graduates of Liberty University."I think the process is going to go quickly. Almost all of them are very well known," Mr. Trump said. "They've been vetted over their lifetime essentially, but very well known, highly respected, really talented people. And that's what we want for the FBI."  Asked if the pick would be announced before his trip overseas, Mr. Trump said, "Even that is possible."It was unclear whether Mr. Trump was referring to a permanent replacement or an interim director. An interim director does not require confirmation by the Senate and could give the administration more time to search for a permanent pick.Acting Director Andrew McCabe has been in charge of the bureau since Comey's precipitous ouster on Tuesday.Mr. Trump will travel to Saudi Arabia at the end of next week, followed by visits to the Vatican and Israel. He will also travel to Sicily for a G-7 meeting and Brussels for a summit of NATO leaders. During a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing Thursday, acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe contradicted many Trump administration talking points ... Department of Justice officials spent the day Saturday interviewing candidates for the permanent FBI director role, including McCabe, Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, attorney Alice Fisher, federal Judge Henry Hudson and former Homeland Security Adviser Fran Townsend, who is also a CBS News national security analyst.Late in the day, Mike Rogers, a former congressman, was a last-minute addition to the list of interviewees. Rogers was endorsed for the permanent director role earlier Saturday by the FBI Agents Association, which represents 13,000 current and former agents.The DOJ also says several current FBI and intelligence officials were being interviewed for the interim position, including Special Agent in Charge Adam Lee, who returned to DOJ for a second interview Saturday. Earlier in the week, DOJ officials said they were close to naming an interim director, but have yet to do so.Paula Reid and Kathryn Watson contributed to this report. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/how-to-watch-trumps-liberty-university-commencement-speech/
WASHINGTON -- President Trump addressed graduates at Liberty University, the Christian school whose leader was among Mr. Trump's earliest and most vocal supporters. Mr. Trump's remarks Saturday on the Lynchburg, Virginia, campus marked his first commencement address as president, and his first extended public appearance since he fired James Comey as FBI director this week.Jerry Falwell Jr., Liberty's president, introduced the president and presented him with an honorary doctorate. Falwell said the commencement crowd numbered more than 50,000, the highest ever for the school. He praised Mr. Trump for an executive order allowing the IRS to use discretion when enforcing a law that bans political spending by tax-exempt entities, most notably churches.President Donald Trump gives the commencement address for the Class of 2017 at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., Saturday, May 13, 2017. The president's speech focused on the graduates' future and, to some extent, the future of religious freedom in the U.S. Mr. Trump mentioned the "great signings" that took place in the White House last week, referring to the executive order."As long as I am your president, no one is ever going to stop you from practicing your faith," Mr. Trump told the graduates.   Mr. Trump referred to his unlikely political rise throughout the address. He urged the students to "be totally unafraid to challenge entrenched interests and failed power structures," adding, "Does that sound familiar?"The former reality TV star who had never before held public office told graduates to "embrace the label" of being an outsider, saying outsiders "change the world and make a real and lasting difference."Mr. Trump said the more that people say something can't be done, "the more you should be absolutely determined to prove them wrong."Members of the Class of 2017 stand as they wait for the arrival of President Donald Trump at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., Saturday, May 13, 2017. Falwell, Liberty's president, helped Mr. Trump win an overwhelming 80 percent of the white evangelical vote in 2016. He became a key surrogate and validator for the thrice-married Mr. Trump during the campaign, frequently traveling with Mr. Trump on the candidate's plane and appearing at events. Falwell often compared Mr. Trump to his later father, the conservative televangelist Jerry Falwell, and argued that while Mr. Trump wasn't the most religious candidate in the race, he was the man the country needed.Mr. Trump has spoken at Liberty University before. He courted Christians there in January 2016 with a speech that drew laughs from some in the audience when referred to one of the Bible's books as "Two Corinthians" instead of the more common "Second Corinthians." In that speech, Mr. Trump promised: "We're going to protect Christianity, and I can say that. I don't have to be politically correct." Newly elected U.S. presidents often give their first commencement addresses at the University of Notre Dame, the country's best-known Roman Catholic school. Presidents Barack Obama, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush did so during their first year in office. But this year, Vice President Mike Pence will speak at Notre Dame's graduation, becoming the first vice president to do so.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/fallout-over-comey-firing-continues-after-tumultuous-week-for-the-white-house/
LYNCHBURG, Va. -- President Trump has been politically bruised after a remarkable week in which his administration struggled to explain why former FBI Director James Comey was fired.But in making his case on TV and on Twitter Friday, the president appears to have opened new, self-inflicted wounds.Mr. Trump suggested in a Friday tweet that he may possess "tapes" of a conversation with Comey.But Mr. Trump told Fox News he would not discuss the possibility his conversations with Comey may have been recorded. President Trump is on the defensive. He took the extraordinary step of tweeting a warning to former FBI Director James Comey, the man he fired th... "Well, that I can't talk about. I won't talk about that," he told host Jeanine Pirro in an interview set to air Saturday night. "All I want is for Comey to be honest. I'm sure he will be. I hope." Top Democrats on the House oversight and judiciary committees are now requesting copies of "all recordings in possession of the White House" in a letter sent to the White House counsel.Like many Democrats, Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia is suspicious of the motivation behind Comey's firing."President Trump has fired this guy because the dragnet is tightening on the Russia investigation," Kaine said, referring to the FBI's probe into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. But the White House originally claimed Comey was fired over his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails. The president criticized Comey's decision not to recommend charges against Clinton in an interview with NBC News. Top Democrats in Congress are demanding President Trump turn over any "tapes" of his conversations with former FBI Director James Comey after Mr.... "What happened, he had a lot of pressure put on and he exonerated her. Should have never exonerated her," he told Lester Holt. Mr. Trump also disputes reports that he asked Comey for his loyalty during a dinner in January. Comey told associates he declined the president's request, saying instead he would always be honest.Mr. Trump denied asking for a loyalty pledge when asked by Fox News."No, no I didn't, but I don't think it would be a bad question to ask," he said. "I think loyalty to the country, loyalty to the United States is important. You know, I mean, it depends on how you define loyalty, number one. Number two, I don't know how that got there, because I didn't ask that question." The shifting explanations from the White House for Comey's firing led the president to suggest getting rid of press briefings all together."We just don't have them. Unless I have them every two weeks and do it myself. We don't have them," he told Fox. New York Times Magazine National Correspondent Mark Leibovich joins CBSN to break down President Trump's tweets about possibly canceling the Whit... The president said he was considering scrapping the daily briefing because of what he called unfair hostility toward his spokespeople, like press secretary Sean Spicer."I think [Mr. Trump] is a little dismayed, as well as a lot of people, that we come out here and try to do everything we can to provide you and the American people with what he's doing on their behalf," Spicer said at Friday's press briefing.On Saturday, the president will try to put the tumultuous week behind him, delivering the commencement address at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Virginia. In the last seven years, the company has outperformed Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google, with its stock going from $9 a share to over $180 today Born in South Carolina, Marcus King was brought up on the blues, performing with his bluesman father, Marvin. Last year the band released their critically acclaimed second album produced by Warren Haynes of The Allman Brothers
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/michelle-obama-criticizes-trump-school-lunch-decision/
Former first lady Michelle Obama participates in a discussion with former White House chef and senior policy adviser for Nutrition Policy Sam Kass during the Partnership for a Healthier America Summit May 12, 2017, in Washington. WASHINGTON  -- Michelle Obama on Friday criticized a Trump administration decision to delay federal rules aimed at making school lunch healthier, saying kids will end up "eating crap" instead. Mrs. Obama told a health conference in Washington that more nutritionally sound school meals are needed since millions of kids nationwide eat federally subsidized breakfast and lunch at school. Without mentioning President Trump by name, she urged parents to think about the government's recent decision and to "look at motives." Trump administration loosens nutrition rules on school lunchesHow might fast-food lover Trump change the nation's diet?"You have to stop and think, 'Why don't you want our kids to have good food at school? What is wrong with you and why is that a partisan issue?" Mrs. Obama said. "Why would that be political?" "Moms, think about this. I don't care what state you live in, take me out of the equation, like me, don't like me, but think about why someone is OK with your kids eating crap," she said. Oprah Winfrey interviewed Michelle Obama at the White House, Obama's last as first lady. Among other topics, Obama said that skin color "least de... During a nearly hourlong conversation led by Sam Kass, the Obamas' personal chef during their White House years and executive director of the anti-childhood obesity initiative she spearheaded as first lady, Mrs. Obama also spoke briefly about her future plans. Her family's last day in the White House was Jan. 20, and she said she and former President Obama would spend the year figuring out what comes next. In one of his first major acts, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue announced on May 1 that the department will delay an upcoming requirement to reduce the amount of sodium in school meals. Purdue said he also planned to keep issuing waivers to a regulation requiring that more whole grains also be served. Schools could also serve 1 percent flavored-milk instead of the nonfat variety now required. The school meal changes reflect suggestions from the School Nutrition Association, which represents school nutrition directors and companies that sell food to schools. The group often battled with the Obama administration, which phased in the healthier school meal rules starting in 2012. Fifty-six school children cooked their way into the White House as part of First Lady Michelle Obama's healthy eating initiative The move partially rolls back rules the former first lady supported as part of her "Let's Move" anti-childhood obesity initiative, but leaves most of the Obama administration's school meal rules in place. Those rules include requirements that students must take fruits and vegetables on the lunch line. Some schools have asked for changes to that policy, saying students often throw those items into the trash. "If kids aren't eating the food, and it's ending up in the trash, they aren't getting any nutrition - thus undermining the intent of the program," Perdue said in making the announcement at a school in Leesburg, Virginia. But Mrs. Obama said it's time for adults to take charge and not put kids in charge. "How about we stop asking kids how they feel about their food because kids, my kids included, if they could eat pizza and french fries every day with ice cream on top and a soda they would think they were happy, until they get sick," she said. "That to me is one of the most ridiculous things we talk about in this movement," the former first lady continued. "You know what? Kids don't like math either. What are we going to do? Stop teaching math?" Her appearance at the annual conference, sponsored by the Partnership for a Healthier America, a nonprofit organization that was created to support her anti-childhood obesity work, was Mrs. Obama's second major public outing since leaving the White House. Last month in Orlando, Florida, she participated in a question-and-answer session during the American Institute of Architects' annual conference. The Obamas have started to re-emerge into the public arena after laying low and cooling their heels on vacations since leaving the White House. Mrs. Obama said she and her husband are busy settling into their new home and offices in Washington and making sure daughters Malia and Sasha are doing well. They also have books to write and money to raise for the presidential center they plan to build on the South Side of her native Chicago. "We're not gone. We're just breathing," Mrs. Obama said.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/does-firing-james-comey-put-trump-in-legal-jeopardy/
WASHINGTON -- The FBI is investigating meddling by the Russians in the U.S. election and whether anyone on the Trump team colluded with them. Former FBI Director James Comey was heading that investigation, so does firing him put the president in legal jeopardy?Within hours of President Trump's tape tweet, a pair of top Democrats had sent a letter to the White House counsel, requesting "copies of all recordings regarding this matter.""The president's actions this morning," they warned, "raise the specter of possible intimidation and obstruction of justice." Press secretary Sean Spicer tried to explain why White House officials have given conflicting accounts as to why President Trump abruptly fired J... They're just the latest Democrats to suggest that the president broke the law."There may be a cover-up," Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut, said in a press conference."He may be obstructing justice," Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Illinois, said."President Trump has fired this guy because the dragnet's tightening in the Russia investigation," Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Virginia, said.The U.S. criminal code defines obstruction of justice as "corruptly or by threats or force" attempting "to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice."Exhibit A, Democrats say: Mr. Trump's own explanation for why he fired Comey. President Trump insists he had already decided to dismiss FBI Director James Comey before his meeting with the attorney general and his deputy. T... "When I decided to just do it, I said to myself, this Russia-Trump thing is a made-up story," Mr. Trump told NBC News Thursday."I would go crazy if a client of mine said something like that," attorney Robert Bennett says.The veteran lawyer has defended Republicans and Democrats, including former President Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky scandal."It's so stupid what he's doing," Bennett says of Mr. Trump.But based on what the public knows, Bennett doesn't believe there's enough evidence for an obstruction of justice case against Mr. Trump."If I were defending the case, I would say, he knows it's not going to end the investigation. If anything, the FBI will get more energized by this, which I believe they will," Bennett says."He is guilty, in my opinion, of violating every major principle of crisis management. He's certainly acting guilty," Bennett says.It's important to note that the congressional standard for obstruction of justice is sometimes lower than the courts'. Neither Mr. Clinton nor Richard Nixon, for example, ever faced criminal charges for obstruction of justice, but they were both impeached for it. Between 11 and 20 percent of veterans who served in Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom suffer from PTSD in a given year At one town hall after another, congressional Republicans on recess this week have been getting an earful
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/here-is-what-robert-gates-says-the-trump-white-house-got-wrong-on-comey/
Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said the firing of FBI Director James Comey Tuesday was "not terribly well done."Gates, the Chancellor of William & Mary who served as defense secretary under Presidents Obama and Bush, told CBS News' "Face The Nation" in an interview airing Sunday that it helps to have a "single story" in place when firing a senior official. There is, he said, a correct way to dismiss a senior official with a "professional approach."Robert Gates "concerned" Trump is unwilling to criticize RussiansRobert Gates on Trump presidency: "I'm hoping I was wrong""You know, I fired a lot of senior people myself and I think the key, when you feel compelled to remove a senior official, is essentially to have all your ducks in a row at the beginning," Gates said. "To have the rationale, have everybody understand what the rationale was." Former CIA Director and Defense Secretary Robert Gates was highly critical of President Trump during the campaign. But Gates said he is heartened... "If possible, to be in a position to announce who is going to step in as the interim immediately," Gates continued. "And if possible, to announce who you're going to nominate to replace that person. And so, being able togo forward, put forward a name of somebody that you would like to have as the candidate to be in that position. For that to be somebody of impeccable integrity and reputation disarms a lot of the worst criticism that it's some kind of a power play."The White House is interviewing candidates to replace Comey, but has yet to announce a pick. Mr. Trump's administration has released conflicting stories about when Mr. Trump decided to fire Comey, and why. White House staff said the president made the decision to fire Comey only Tuesday at the recommendation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. But Mr. Trump on Thursday said he was going to fire Comey "regardless" of the DOJ recommendation. The White House also said Mr. Trump fired Comey over the Clinton email investigation and because he had lost the confidence of "rank and file" FBI employees, but other developments -- like Mr. Trump's claim Thursday that he thought of the "made-up" story about collusion between Russia and him when firing Comey -- have immersed the White House's justification in scrutiny. Russia and Putin will be major concerns for Rex Tillerson if he is confirmed as secretary of state. Earlier this week, former Defense Secretary R... Gates said it's important to take a "professional approach to replacing a senior official.""It's always going to be contentious," Gates said. "But having a single story in line in terms of how it happened and why it happened, that everybody is on the same page, and then what the next steps are I think helps to diminish the blowback that you get."Failing to take such a professional approach, Gates said, has consequences. "Well, I think you see the kind of media firestorm that we've seen over the last couple of days," Gates said. "And I think it would always have been a lot of coverage, but I think you can significantly mitigate it."The full "Face The Nation" interview with Gates will air Sunday at 10:30 a.m. John Dickerson has quizzed a number of newsmakers and experienced policy hands on the traits and attributes a president needs to succeed – here’s what they said A group of voters in Richmond, Va., talked to "Face the Nation" about their views on the president's first month and where the country is headed
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/john-dickerson-what-did-deputy-ag-rosenstein-think-would-happen/
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, a central figure in the ongoing controversy over the abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey, agreed Friday to brief members of the Senate next week about Comey's ouster.Rosenstein has been on the job for only a few weeks, but his role in President Trump's firing of the FBI chief has come under enormous scrutiny from Democrats on Capitol Hill. Rosenstein met with Mr. Trump Monday before writing a memo criticizing Comey for his handling of the investigation in Hillary Clinton's email use. White House officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, said earlier in the week that Mr. Trump acted entirely on Rosenstein's recommendation when firing Comey. While White House staff and Vice President Mike Pence said President Trump took the recommendation to fire former FBI director James Comey from t... However, Mr. Trump told NBC News Thursday he had already decided to dismiss Comey before he met with Rosenstein Monday.The evolving explanations from Mr. Trump and his team raise questions about why Rosenstein wrote the memo, CBS News chief Washington correspondent and anchor of "Face The Nation" John Dickerson said on the "CBS Evening News" Friday."What did the deputy attorney general think was going to happen when he wrote that letter for the president?" Dickerson told Anthony Mason. "Democrats say it looks like he was trying to provide legitimacy and the power of his reputation to cover for a decision the president made for other reasons."While Democrats have charged that Mr. Trump potentially obstructed justice by firing Comey over the FBI's investigation into Russian meddling in the election, Republicans have largely avoided criticizing the administration. "The Republicans are still behind the president," Dickerson said. "Those who have been skeptical about him in the past are skeptical, but the usual alliances, most Republicans are holding in support of the president, despite the fact that the president is making it difficult." Former Defense Secretary Robert Gates spoke with Face the Nation about President Trump's decision to fire FBI Director James Comey. The controversy over Comey and the Russia investigation threatens to overwhelm the GOP's agenda in Congress, Dickerson added."But even if Republicans are in lockstep, there's another challenge here, which is, how do they continue pushing legislation, now that they have to face this distraction this week and the distraction that seems almost certain to come in the future?" Dickerson said.Tune into "Face The Nation" Sunday morning, where former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates will join Dickerson to discuss the Comey firing and Mr. Trump's presidency. Between 11 and 20 percent of veterans who served in Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom suffer from PTSD in a given year At one town hall after another, congressional Republicans on recess this week have been getting an earful
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/fact-checking-sean-spicers-remarks-on-comeys-firing-and-russian-collusion/
Amid the fallout from FBI Director James Comey's dismissal, White House Press Secretary Spicer fielded reporters' mounting questions on Friday about disparate accounts emerging from the White House concerning Comey's firing.In doing so, he made some assertions from the podium that bear a second look -- about the nature of the statements made by the White House about Comey's firing; about Mr. Trump's tweets and former DNI James Clapper's past statements on collusion; and on whether the president asked for loyalty from Comey.Did White House give reporters conflicting information about the firing of James Comey?Spicer refused to acknowledge that the White House has given the public conflicting information about the firing of Comey. Asked by Time Magazine's Zeke Miller, "Why were the American people given incorrect information [the night Comey was fired]," Spicer responded, "I don't necessarily believe that that's true, Zeke. There was a decision-making process; the President explained it in the interview process." But over the last few days, the White House has offered several explanations for Comey's firing. On Tuesday, the White House said that President Trump was acting on the recommendation of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who faulted Comey for his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's private email server. Mr. Trump also said in his termination letter to Comey that he had "accepted" the recommendation of Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to fire Comey. It's worth noting that Rosenstein's letter never directly called for Comey's dismissal, although Sessions did when he forwarded Rosenstein's letter to Mr. Trump.In a meeting with reporters Tuesday night, Spicer put the burden of the firing squarely on Rosenstein. "It was all him [Rosenstein]," Spicer said. "That's correct — I mean, I can't, I guess I shouldn't say that, thank you for the help on that one. No one from the White House. That was a DOJ decision." But two days later, the president himself refuted this version of events. On Thursday night, Mr. Trump told NBC News' Lester Holt that he "was going to fire" Comey "regardless of recommendation." "[Rosenstein] made a recommendation, but regardless of recommendation, I was going to fire Comey," Mr. Trump said.During his press briefing on Friday, Spicer insisted that Mr. Trump's comments did not contradict what Spicer said Tuesday night. He also said that Rosenstein's memo did, in fact, affect the president's decision to fire Comey."This is ultimately going to be the president's, always going to be the president's decision," Spicer said. "Everyone who serves at the pleasure of the president – it's always going to be his decision to hire someone, fire someone, he made a decision in part based on the recommendation, and he's now focused on making sure that we have a replacement at the FBI to ensure they have the proper leadership they need."The press has been told at various times that Comey's firing was based on his handling of the investigation into Clinton's server, that it was "all" on Rosenstein's recommendation, and that it had nothing to do with Russia. And they've also been told that Mr. Trump had made his decision before Rosenstein's memo. And Mr. Trump said he thought of "made-up" Russia ties when he decided to fire Comey.While Spicer doesn't necessarily believe it's true Americans were given incorrect information about the night Comey was fired, the things the president himself has said about Comey's firing refute that. Clapper's statement on Russian collusionIn a Friday morning tweet, Mr. Trump said that former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said that there had been "no collusion" between Russia and the president's campaign. Before assuming the role of White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer was communications director for the Republican National Committee. Now as th... But Clapper's remarks were not that clear-cut. He had said that he wasn't aware of the FBI's counterintelligence investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, and that he had not seen any evidence yet of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.Following Mr. Trump's tweet on Friday, Clapper further clarified the point. "I don't know if there was collusion or not. I don't know if there was evidence of collusion or not — nor should I have," Clapper said in an interview with MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell, explaining that he deferred to the FBI director to keep him apprised of investigations.During White House press conference later that day, Spicer said that Clapper had said before that there was no evidence of collusion, and that he should be asked, "Why did he say what he said before?" In a March interview with NBC News' Chuck Todd on "Meet the Press," Clapper was questioned closely about collusion and Trump campaign affiliates:CHUCK TODD: Let me ask you this, does intelligence exist that can definitively answer the following question, whether there were improper contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia officials?CLAPPER: We did not include evidence in our report, and I say our, that's NSA, FBI and CIA with my office, the director of national intelligence that had anything — that had any reflection of collusion between members of the Trump campaign and the Russians. There was there no evidence of that including in our report.TODD: I understand that, but does it exist?CLAPPER: Not to my knowledge.TODD: If it existed, it would have been in the report?CLAPPER: This could have unfolded or become available in the time since I left the government. But at the time, we had no evidence of such collusion.So it's true that in early March, Clapper told Todd repeatedly that there was no evidence of collusion. But about two weeks later, Comey revealed the existence of the investigation into Trump campaign associates and Russia, a fact that Clapper has said he didn't know about at the time. The FBI's investigation was said to be increasing in intensity by the time of Comey's firing, to the point that Comey had asked for more resources for the Russia probe. Clapper has not been the DNI for several months, since Mr. Trump was inaugurated. So any knowledge that Clapper would have about Russian collusion could reasonably be seen as out of date. Spicer's statements are partly true. Did Trump asked for loyalty from Comey?  Spicer had a simple answer for whether Mr. Trump asked for Comey's loyalty when the two met in January for dinner: "No.""The president wants loyalty to this country and rule of law," was all Spicer would add to that topic.But a law enforcement source has told CBS News, and other outlets have reported, that the president did indeed ask for Comey to pledge his loyalty. During their January dinner, the president told Comey he needed his loyalty, and Comey responded that he would be honest, according to CBS News' source. Mr. Trump claims Comey asked for the dinner, although CBS News reported the White House invited Comey.Spicer did make one remark about loyalty when a reporter asked if Spicer had been asked for a loyalty pledge when he took his press secretary role."I've pledged my loyalty to the Constitution and to the American people, as has everyone who serves in our government and this administration, and we stand by that," Spicer said.  Mr. Trump, in an interview with Fox News' Judge Jeanine Pirro, said, "I didn't ask that question."So who's telling the truth here? Let's go to the "tapes" -- the ones the president referred to in a tweet Friday. We'll only ever know the truth for sure if it turns out that there is a recording of the conversations between Mr. Trump and Comey, and that recording is released. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/comey-was-nearly-invisible-online-until-trump-fired-him/
Former Director of the FBI James Comey retained a fairly low-profile on the internet until he got fired by President Trump on Tuesday, according to new data by media optimization company SocialFlow. In measuring the total engagements (likes, comments, posts) on Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms of Comey as well as Mr. Trump, SocialFlow media strategist Mark White concluded that the former director was the "almost the invisible FBI chief" until Tuesday. In the new data, SocialFlow found that after the announcement of his termination, Comey's online presence shot up. He was mentioned on Twitter nearly 2.7 million times in just 24 hours. White said that Comey's Twitter spike is "whopping," but his engagements on Facebook were even double that.In the same 24-hour period on Facebook, Comey reached nearly 184 million users with an average of 4.7 million user engagements per post. In addition, 2,795 news articles were also posted about him. Here's a graph of the recent spike in Comey's Twitter mentions. A major difference in user engagement can be found between Comey's firing and his Judiciary Committee testimony on May 3, in which he answered questions about an FBI investigation into possible ties between Trump campaign officials and Russian election meddling. This SocialFlow graphs shows the spike in former-FBI Director James Comey's popularity on Twitter after his termination on Tuesday, May 9, 2017. The numbers from his firing are by far his largest when contrasted with other high-profile events involving Comey such as the publishing of an FBI report on the Hillary Clinton email investigation in September 2016, which led to his decision to not recommend prosecuting her. Comey's Facebook numbers for that month reached only around one million users per post and just an average of 40,000 engagements. This SocialFlow graphs measures the response of social media in 2016 users to published articles about former-FBI Director James Comey. When Comey raised new questions about Clinton's emails in October just days before the election, his Facebook numbers were just half of what they were in September, suggesting an overarching interest in Comey's role in the investigation, at least online, was lagging. While Comey's engagement numbers for top social-media platforms from 2016 were noticeably smaller to those after his termination, they are microscopic in size to the digital frenzy Mr. Trump creates on a daily basis."Comey is not in the same ballpark," White said, trying to compare the two. The president has reinvented the wheel when it comes to elected leaders and their digital footprint. A frequent-user of Twitter, Mr. Trump, White said, is measured up with some of the most famous celebrities. Below is a graph comparing social media mentions between Mr. Trump and some of the most well-known people in pop culture. This SocialFlow graph measures total social media mentions over an unspecified time frame. "We had to stop comparing Trump to the presidential candidates and instead compare him to celebs like Kanye West and David Bowie," White said. "Both beat Trump for a single day, Kanye had to air his dirty laundry and Bowie, unfortunately, had to die." Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/sean-spicer-in-the-bush-cutout-scores-on-social-media/
Lisa Kadonaga, a university professor, poses for a photo with a cutout she made from a photograph of White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, in Victoria, British Columbia, on May 15, 201 VICTORIA, British Columbia -- A Canadian woman's idea to make a lawn ornament out of a picture of White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has been trending on social media.The Washington Post reported on May 10 that Spicer had been among the bushes with his staff late the night before as reporters waited to question him about President Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey.The Post's Jenna Johnson said in a video that Spicer did an interview with Fox Business then, "As soon as it was done, instead of coming toward the reporters who were waiting for him, he went the back way. It was very dark, and he was back in this kind of bushy area with all of these leafy bushes and trees and was huddling with his staff back there, and we were waiting for him. We knew he had to come by us to get back into the White House. And so we waited him out."She continued, in a story on the same page, "After Spicer spent several minutes hidden in the darkness and among the bushes … Janet Montesi, an executive assistant in the press office, emerged and told reporters that Spicer would answer some questions, as long as he was not filmed doing so. Spicer then emerged … and was soon standing in near darkness between two tall hedges, with more than a dozen reporters closely gathered around him."  That sent university professor Lisa Kadonaga looking for a headshot of Spicer. She had it blown up and printed, then put it in some shrubbery at a local bank in Victoria, British Columbia. She photographed it and shared the picture with her Facebook friends.Kadonaga says she figured a few people might get a laugh out of it and was "shocked" to soon find her Spicer in the bush cutout trending on Twitter.
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/national-security-adviser-mcmaster-denies-that-trump-gave-classified-info-to-russia/
In a briefing outside the West Wing on Monday evening, National Security Adviser Gen. H.R. McMaster denied an explosive Washington Post report that President Donald Trump disclosed "highly classified" intelligence to Russian officials last week."There's nothing the president takes more seriously than the security of the American people," McMaster told reporters."The story that came out tonight as reported is false," he added."Highly damaging": Ex-CIA deputy director on report Trump revealed classified info If the president did reveal sensitive information to the Russians, what will the consequences be? Former CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell has m... The Post report, citing U.S. officials, alleged that Mr. Trump shared intelligence with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak pertaining to an Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) plot. The intelligence, which was given the highest level of classification, was obtained from a U.S. ally and given to the Russians without their permission.McMaster said "the president and the foreign minister reviewed a range of common threats to our two countries, including threats to civil aviation" and that "at no time, at no time, were intelligence sources or methods discussed.""And the president did not disclose any military operations that were not already publicly known," McMaster said. "Two other senior officials who were present, including the secretary of state, remember the meeting the same way and have said so. And their on the record accounts should outweigh those of anonymous sources.""I was in the room, it didn't happen," McMaster concluded before returning to the White House.He did not take questions from reporters. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/congress-reacts-to-reports-of-trumps-disclosure-of-classified-information/
President Trump revealed "highly classified" intelligence to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak last week, according to a report in The Washington Post.The extremely sensitive information was gathered by a U.S. ally united in the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and given on the basis that it remain private between the two parties. According to U.S. officials who spoke to the Post, Mr. Trump potentially jeopardized that relationship while also disclosing key ISIS-related intelligence. "Highly damaging": Ex-CIA deputy director on report Trump revealed classified infoIn a briefing Monday evening, National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster denied on behalf of the White House that Mr. Trump shared the reported classified intelligence. MORE: "At no time, at no time, were intelligence sources or methods discussed," H.R. McMaster says, denying report: CBS News (@CBSNews) May 15, 2017 The Post's report sent shockwaves through Capitol Hill on Monday, shaking up lawmakers who last week called into question Mr. Trump's relationship with Russia after he fired FBI Director James Comey."[O]bviously they're in a downward spiral right now, they've got to figure out a way to come to grips with all the that's happening," Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tennessee, said when asked by asked by the story by reporters Monday evening."You know the shame of it is there is a real good national security team in place and there are good productive things that are underway through them and others. The chaos that is being created by the lack of discipline is creating an environment that I think makes, it creates a worrisome environment."Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vermont, expressed concern for national security, saying in a tweet, "a week ago Trump fired Comey. Now this." A week ago Trump fired Comey. Now this. It's vitally important that Trump make public any recordings he has of talks in the Oval Office.— Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) May 15, 2017 Sen. Mark Warner, D-Virginia, called the situation "a slap in the face to the intel community" and Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Rhode Island, said if true, Mr. Trump is "sabotaging our war against ISIS." If true, this is a slap in the face to the intel community. Risking sources & methods is inexcusable, particularly with the Russians. Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) May 15, 2017 This bombshell report is astonishing & appalling - betraying our allies, endangering safety of sources, & sabotaging our war against ISIS.— Richard Blumenthal (@SenBlumenthal) May 15, 2017 Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-New Mexico, drew comparisons between Mr. Trump's own alleged handling of the classified information and Mr. Trump's criticism of 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server, also describing the behavior as part of "a pattern of recklessness." “And then I criticized her for using a personal email server!” Martin Heinrich (@MartinHeinrich) May 15, 2017 Hillary emails have harmless "classified" info; Republicans chant "lock her up." Trump reveals real secrets to Russians; Rs say what??— Sheldon Whitehouse (@SenWhitehouse) May 15, 2017 House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California, also commented on the Post's report."Even if President Trump unwittingly blew a highly classified code-word source to the Russians, that would be dangerous enough," she said in a statement. "If the President outed a highly classified code-word source intentionally, that would be even more dangerous."Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, who also serves as chairman of the Armed Services Committee, tweeted of the report: "If true, deeply disturbing," Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-reveals-classified-information-russians-oval-office-report-michael-morell/
President Donald Trump revealed "highly classified" information to Russian officials during a meeting at the White House last week, The Washington Post reported.Congress reacts to reports of Trump's disclosure of classified information"This is highly damaging for two reasons," said former CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell about the reported reveal, which the White House denies. "First, the Russians will undoubtedly try to figure out the source or the method of this information to make sure that it is not also collecting on their activities in Syria -- and in trying to do that they could well disrupt the source.""The second damage is that third countries who provide the United States with intelligence information will now have pause to do so if the United States is sharing such information with the Russians without their permission," Morell said in a conversation with CBS News' Scott Pelley.Former CIA deputy director and CBS News senior national security contributor Michael Morell. Pelley asked Morell if he felt better that, according to National Security Adviser Gen. H.R. McMaster, no methods or sources were compromised."Not a lot better… but not sharing that source or method does not make any better the problems I outlined earlier," he said. MORE: "At no time, at no time, were intelligence sources or methods discussed," H.R. McMaster says, denying report: CBS News (@CBSNews) May 15, 2017 For more on this, watch the video in the player above.Meanwhile, a senior White House official, who was in the room with Mr. Trump and the Russian officials, repeated what others have said today that The Washington Post story isn't true. No classified information of any kind was disclosed by Mr. Trump, no source information and no operational information. The source told CBS News that the leaks are coming from people who weren't there or no longer in the government at all. Between 11 and 20 percent of veterans who served in Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom suffer from PTSD in a given year At one town hall after another, congressional Republicans on recess this week have been getting an earful
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/clinton-launches-political-action-committee-for-advancement-of-democrats/
Hillary Clinton on Monday launched her anticipated political action group, Onward Together, which will collaborate with and fund political organizations supporting the Democratic Party.In an email announcing the nonprofit's installation, the former Democratic presidential encapsulated her broader mission, saying that a healthy democracy depends upon strong citizen engagement."To support this wave of grassroots organizing, we're launching Onward Together, an organization dedicated to advancing the progressive vision that earned nearly 66 million votes in the last election," read the statement, which also appears on the group's website. "Onward Together will work to build a brighter future for generations to come by supporting groups that encourage people to organize and run for office."Onward Together will aid Indivisible Guide, a progressive organization adopting strategies from the Tea Party Patriots movement; Swing Left, an action group devising strategies for a Democratic House takeover in 2018; Color Of Change, an online organization for racial justice; Emerge America, an advocacy alliance for involvement of women in politics; and Run for Something, an organization aiding millennials seeking public office.With guidance from former Democratic Chairman and Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, the group hopes to gain support, and donations, from the roughly 66 million voters who cast their ballots for Clinton in November.In the email, Clinton praised political organization efforts such as the Women's March in January and credited them with paving a way forward for Democrats."From the Women's March to airports where communities are welcoming immigrants and refugees to town hall meetings in every community, Americans are speaking up and speaking out like never before," the statement read."The challenges we face as a country are real. But there's no telling what we can achieve if we approach the fights ahead with the passion and determination we feel today, and bring that energy into 2017, 2018, 2020, and beyond."Clinton also promoted Onward Together in a series of eight tweets, adding that the group will continue to reach out to additional political organizations in the future and that supporters should "stay tuned for more to come." We're launching Onward Together to encourage people to get involved, organize, and even run for office. Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 15, 2017 .@IndivisibleTeam @swingleft .@ColorOfChange is organizing for criminal justice reform, voter freedom, fairness and accuracy in media, and other racial justice issues.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 15, 2017 A Clinton quote from March that reads "resist, insist, persist, enlist" greets visitors on the website's front page. Arrow graphics, similar to those used in Clinton's presidential campaign, line the bottom half of the page.The website's design features play off of the Clinton campaign's bold, clean aesthetics, but its main difference lies in its renewed message of citizen engagement.CBS News reported earlier in May about reporting and speculation of the group's launch.According to a report by Politico, over the course of her travels and public speaking engagements in previous months, Clinton met with potential donors, strategists and advisers for the nonprofit.Those included Clinton's former campaign finance director Dennis Cheng, former Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs at the U.S. State Department Judith McHale and longtime family adviser Minyon Moore.As the Democratic Party revises its strategy in response to Mr. Trump's unexpected win and Republican control of both the House and the Senate, Clinton's group says it will play a role is assisting progressive groups in the lead up to the 2018 midterms."This year hasn't been what I envisioned," Clinton's sign-off tweet read, "but I know what I'm still fighting for: a kinder, big-hearted, inclusive America. Onward!" Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-revealed-classified-info-to-russians-at-white-house/
President Donald Trump revealed "highly classified" intelligence to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador Segey Kislyak during a meeting at the White House last week, according to The Washington Post. The disclosures may have endangered a key intelligence source involved with the campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), U.S. officials told the paper.A former intelligence official told CBS News "something inappropriate" was discussed by Mr. Trump in the meeting with Russian officials last week. The source  – who is in touch with current officials – says "details were discussed that should not have been discussed." Democrats in Congress are threatening to vote against any FBI director nominee unless a special prosecutor is appointed to take over the Russia i... The information shared by Mr. Trump with the Russians was not collected by U.S. intelligence. Rather, it was given to the U.S. by an ally in the fight against ISIS, and was provided with the understanding that it would not be shared with other countries without permission. The intelligence was "code-word information," the Post reports. That's the term used for intelligence classified at the highest possible level. U.S. officials worry that the disclosure of the information will do serious harm to relations with the ally in question. "If that partner learned we'd given this to Russia without their knowledge or asking first that is a blow to that relationship," a U.S. official told the Post. "Highly damaging": Ex-CIA deputy director on report Trump revealed classified infoThe White House denied the report. "This story is false," said Dina Powell, the deputy national security adviser for strategy and a participant in the meeting, in a statement to reporters Monday evening. "The president only discussed the common threats that both countries faced." Secretary of State Rex Tillerson also commented."During President Trump's meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov a broad range of subjects were discussed among which were common efforts and threats regarding counter-terrorism. During that exchange the nature of specific threats were discussed, but they did not discuss sources, methods or military operations," he said in a statement. In a briefing to reporters Monday night, national security advisor Gen. H.R. McMaster, a participant in the meeting, said the disclosure "didn't happen.""The story that came out tonight, as reported, is false," McMaster said. A source familiar with the workings of the Senate Intelligence Committee says the committee members -- including its leaders -- have not been briefed on the president's alleged comments to the Russians, according to CBS News' Nancy Cordes. One official told the paper that Mr. Trump "revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than we have shared with our own allies." But given the president's wide latitude in declassifying materials, it's unlikely that he broke any laws by sharing the information with the Russians. "The president and the foreign minister reviewed common threats from terrorist organizations to include threats to aviation," McMaster told the paper. "At no time were any intelligence sources or methods discussed and no military operations were disclosed that were not already known publicly." CBS News' chief Washington correspondent and "Face the Nation" anchor John Dickerson joins CBSN to discuss where the investigation into Russian m... However, the Post report doesn't say that Mr. Trump discussed methods or sources with Lavrov and Kislyak. Instead, the paper says Mr. Trump discussed information provided by a source relating to a specific terrorist threat. In doing so, he disclosed elements of a plot being planned by ISIS, the danger posed by the plot, and the city in ISIS-held territory where the U.S. ally had detected the threat. Based on that information, "Russia could identify our sources or techniques," a senior U.S. official told the Post, although the response from Lavrov and Kislyak at the time was reportedly "muted." Confronted by reporters outside the West Wing on Monday shortly after the Post's report was published, McMaster said, "This is the last place in the world I wanted to be. I'm leaving." Mr. Trump is reported to have boasted that he had access to classified information during his meeting with the Russians. "I get great intel. I have people brief me on great intel every day," the Post reported Mr. Trump as saying, citing a U.S. official. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/spicer-refuses-to-provide-clear-answers-on-trumps-tapes-tweet/
The White House is saying nothing about questions related to President Trump's tweet alluding to the existence of audio tapes of a dinner conversation with former FBI Director James Comey. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has dodged repeated questions about the tapes and the conversation itself a total of seven times in the past few days.Following Mr. Trump's tweet on May 12th, where the president threatened that Comey "better hope there are no tapes" of the conversation, Spicer told reporters he had "talked" with the president about the tweet in question, and said that the president "had nothing to add on the topic." James Comey better hope that there are no "tapes" of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 12, 2017 There are two different anecdotes from that January dinner -- one that says that Mr. Trump asked for Comey's loyalty during the course of the dinner, and Comey told associates he declined, saying instead that he would always be honest. Mr. Trump said of their dinner that Comey had told him that he was not the subject of an FBI investigation.   When asked pointblank at the same briefing if anyone in the White House had an audio recording of what unfolded during the dinner, Spicer said he was "not aware" of whether such a recording exists.  Spicer continued to deny reporters' inquiries about the tapes two more times at the May 12 briefing. In Monday's briefing, Spicer reiterated his non-answer about the tape's existence, refusing to provide any more details on just what the president meant in his tweet, saying only that Mr. Trump has "made it clear" what his position is.Asked if the White House would cooperate with requests made by both Republicans and Democrats to provide additional information, in writing, over the existence of any tapes -- Spicer stuck with his same refrain, telling reporters it was clear what Mr. Trump's position is on the issue.And when asked to clarify just what that position was? Spicer answered "he has nothing further to add."Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, called the conversation between Trump and Comey "highly unethical" on CBS News' "Face the Nation" on Sunday. "The fact that they had a private conversation in which the president, by his own admission, was discussing the future of Director Comey in that job and the president brings up whether he's under investigation? Highly unethical. At a minimum unethical," Schiff said. "If he was then trying to impede the investigation in any way, maybe beyond unethical. But deeply disturbing. Again, a threat to our system of checks and balances."Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-New York, echoed Schiff's statements on the Senate floor on Monday, calling for Trump to turn over any tapes to Congress and investigators. "The fact that the President has said he may have taped Mr. Comey makes the need for a special prosecutor all the more important. If it's true, if there are tapes, a special prosecutor would have the ability to obtain these tapes, undeterred, and then can examine them to and see what wrongdoing, if any, has occurred," added Schumer. Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California says he was deeply disturbed by the President's dismissal of FBI Director Comey, calling it "a threat to our syste... Mr. Trump, however, denied he asked Comey for a loyalty pledge when asked by Fox News earlier this week."No, no I didn't, but I don't think it would be a bad question to ask," he said. "I think loyalty to the country, loyalty to the United States is important. You know, I mean, it depends on how you define loyalty, number one. Number two, I don't know how that got there, because I didn't ask that question." Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-search-for-fbi-director-moving-rapidly/
The search for an FBI director to replace James Comey is "moving rapidly," President Trump said Monday. He was responding to a question from a pool of reporters during an Oval Office photo op with Crown Prince Muhammad bin Zayid Al Nuhayyan of Abu Dhabi.The search for a new FBI director began soon after the president fired James Comey less than a week ago. Over the weekend, Mr. Trump said he hoped to pick a new director in short order, saying of the candidates that were being interviewed, "These are outstanding people that are very well known, highest level. So we can make a fast decision." He even suggested that it was "possible" that he'd announce his choice to lead the FBI before he leaves for his first overseas trip as president Friday.Clapper calls handling of Comey's firing "pretty shabby"Here are the candidates who have been interviewed by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein:Alice Fisher: Fisher is a lawyer and former Justice Department official who, if selected and confirmed, would be the first woman to lead the FBI. Currently, she focuses on white collar criminal investigations as a partner at Latham & Watkins, according to the firm's bio. She has also served as assistant attorney general in charge of the criminal division of the Justice Department.Adam Lee: Lee, an attorney licensed in California, is currently the FBI office chief for the FBI Richmond, Virginia Office. The FBI's profile of Lee says that he most recently served as section chief of the Public Corruption and Civil Rights Section in Washington, D.C.Andrew McCabe:  McCabe is the current acting Director of the FBI.  He served as the Deputy Director under now former Director James Comey.  He is currently the subject of an internal DOJ investigation over whether he should have recused himself in the Hillary Clinton email investigation.  His wife ran for office in Virginia and took money from a Clinton-linked donor.Sen. John Cornyn: Cornyn is the senior senator from Texas, now serving his third term. He has also been the Texas attorney general and a judge on the Texas State Supreme Court.Michael Garcia: Garcia is a New York State Judge who is also a former federal prosecutor with extensive experience in immigration enforcement, a top priority for this administration.  He would be the first Latino to lead the FBI.Henry Hudson: Hudson, a federal judge in Virginia, is nearly 70 years old, which could be a disadvantage, given  Judge Henry Hudson is a federal judge in Virginia, and the first judge to rule against Obamacare.  He's almost 70 years old, which could work against him in a job that carries a 10-year term.Fran Townsend: Townsend served in George W. Bush's administration in the Justice Department, and she was also his former Homeland Security adviser.  If selected, she would be the first woman to lead the FBI. She has also been a national security analyst for CBS News.Mike Rogers: The former congressman from Michigan chaired the House Intelligence Committee, and he's also a former FBI agent who has been endorsed the FBI Agents Association to be FBI director.And Utah Sen. Mike Lee floated another name in the last couple of days, too:Merrick Garland: The top judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC circuit is more recently known as President Obama's failed pick for the Supreme Court who never got a confirmation hearing from the Senate. Judge Neil Gorsuch was named by President Trump to the Supreme Court instead.List compiled by Paula Reid, Khalea Robinson, Katie Ross Dominick and Andres Triay Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/state-department-says-crematorium-installed-at-syrian-prison/
A Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) fighter uses his binoculars to look at a drone they said belonged to Islamic State fighters on the bank of the Euphrates river, west of Raqqa city, Syria, April 8, 2017. The Syrian regime is using a crematorium at a military prison to dispose of dead bodies in an effort to "cover up" the mass murders that the regime is carrying out, according to the State Department.The crematorium does not dispose of all of those bodies but allows many of these killings to be committed with "little evidence," explained Stuart Jones, the acting assistant secretary for Near Eastern Affairs, on Monday. Seth Doane is in the capital of Syria, Damascus, where the Syrian army is claiming victory. In a nearby suburb, 1,500 rebels and their families a... The Saydnaya military prison, located 45 minutes from Damascus, is killing up to 50 people a day. An Amnesty International report earlier this year estimated that between 5,000 and 13,000 people were executed at Sednaya in the last four years.Three satellite photos, dating back to 2013, were given to reporters to demonstrate the location and evidence showing this crematorium. One photo shows the snow melting on the area of the building where they believe the device is located.The State Department says Russia and Iran have unconditionally supported the Assad regime but they did not have a hand in creating the crematorium. It is unclear if Iran or Russia know about the crematorium. However, the U.S. government does want Russia specifically to hold the Assad regime accountable for the atrocious acts.When Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov visited the U.S. last week, for meetings with President Trump and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, they did not discuss this intelligence with him, Jones said. Nor have the allegations been shared with the Russian government at all.The Syrian civil war has now claimed over 400,000 lives since it started six years ago. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/barron-trump-to-attend-st-andrews-episcopal-school/
CBS News confirms that Barron Trump, the son of President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump will be attending St. Andrew's Episcopal School in Potomac, Maryland next year.The First Lady says the family is excited for Barron to attend the school, saying that it is known for its "diverse community and commitment to academic excellence.""The mission of St. Andrew's is 'to know and inspire each child in an inclusive community dedicated to exceptional teaching, learning, and service,' all of which appealed to our family.  We look forward to the coming school years at St. Andrew's," said the First Lady in a statement on Monday.A departure from Mr. Trump's predecessors' choice in school, Sidwell Friends, located within DC city limits, St. Andrew's is a 30-minute drive from 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. -- without traffic. Former first daughter Chelsea Clinton spoke out in defense of Donald Trump's youngest son, Barron Trump, while also criticizing his father's poli... Eleven-year-old Barron is currently finishing the school year at a private school in New York where he has been living with his mother since Mr. Trump took office in January. The school's head, Robert Kosasky, boasts St. Andrew's teachers are the "most research-informed faculty in the nation" according to the school's website. Founded in 1978 the private co-ed college prep school's mission is to "inspire each child in an inclusive community dedicated to exceptional teaching, learning and service. The private institution's tuition ranges from about $23,000 for pre-Kindergarten to over $40,000 for grades 9-12. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/9th-circuit-court-of-appeals-hears-arguments-in-revised-travel-ban-case/
LOS ANGELES, CA - FEBRUARY 04: Demonstrators support a ruling by a federal judge in Seattle that grants a nationwide temporary restraining order against the presidential order to ban travel to the United States from seven Muslim-majority countries, at Tom Bradley International Terminal at Los Angeles International Airport on February 4, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images) The U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals on Monday will hear oral argument on President Trump's revised travel ban from early March and whether it violates the Constitution.The federal appeals court, based in San Francisco, will hold a hearing at 12:30 p.m. ET in Seattle. The court will review the decision issued by Hawaii U.S. District Court Judge Derrick Watson regarding the ban's enforcement. Three judges, all appointed by President Bill Clinton, will decide the case, according to The Los Angeles Times. They are Judges Ronald Gould, Richard Paez and Michael Daly Hawkins.Follow below for live updates.Wall calls for court to vacate or limit injunction against ban The Trump administration's attorney called on the three-judge panel to vacate or at a minimum substantially narrow the injunction put in place by a U.S. district court judge in Hawaii.Judge Gould asks if the court could affirm the injunction on statutory groundsKatyal says the court could do that.Katyal says Trump never disavowed his statements on MuslimsHe said he was surprised that Wall said that the president had disavowed his initial comments. "The truth is there is no such statement," Katyal said. He began quoting statements Trump made on the campaign trail, beginning in December 2015 when he called for a "total and complete shutdown" of Muslims entering the U.S. He said that the press release issued at that time had been left on his campaign's website until it disappeared from the site last week before 4th Circuit Court arguments.Neal Katyal is the attorney arguing against the ban on behalf of Hawaii Katyal is the former acting solicitor general of the U.S. and serves as a partner at Hogan Lovells in Washington, D.C. Judges skeptical that order is a Muslim ban disguised by national security justificationsJudge Gould asked Wall how a court can know whether the executive order is in fact a Muslim ban in the guise of national security justification. Judge Hawkins asked if the president ever disavowed his campaign statements in which he called for blocking all Muslims from entering the U.S."Yes, he has said everything things approaching that," Wall said, adding that they are detailed in amicus briefs. "Over time, the president clarified that what he was talking about were Islamic terrorist groups and countries sponsoring them." The ban has nothing to do with religion, Wall says"The order on its face doesn't have anything to do with religion," Wall said. He said that the executive order operates "with respect to aliens abroad."Judge Paez calls the revised ban an "extremely broad order" Judge Paez said that Trump's executive order is "extremely broad" and it doesn't involve an individual one-off by a consular officer. Wall said, "I don't know that it's an extremely broad order." Paez asked rhetorically how many nationals the ban would apply to in the corresponding countries. "A large number," he said. "We don't know yet," Wall said, "Because we haven't been able to implement the order." Wall argued that Congress and the Obama administration singled out the countries under the ban as having ties to terrorism and were removed from the visa waiver program.Jeffrey Wall is the attorney arguing for the Trump administrationWall, acting solicitor general, argued that the global injunction cannot stand for three reasons, which includes that the U.S. district court applied the wrong legal reason.Each side will get 30 minutes to present their arguments for and against the ban"The court's very well aware of the importance of this case," Judge Gould said. Gould added that he will allow for more time if need-be. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/report-president-trump-considers-exercise-misguided/
President Donald Trump says that he considers exercise "misguided" according to a recent report by The New Yorker. The article released last week says that Mr. Trump feels that a person, like a battery, is "born with a finite amount of energy."His recent comments on physical fitness appear to parallel that of the lifestyle he puts on display in his presidential tweets. Great afternoon in Ohio & a great evening in Pennsylvania - departing now. See you tomorrow Virginia! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 2, 2016 Mr. Trump, who recently showed a penchant for diet soda and two scoops of ice cream at a four-course meal with reporters from Time Magazine, has previously tweeted his appreciation for fast food fare -- including a spread of KFC aboard his private plane on the campaign trail, and the Cinco De Mayo taco bowl from Trump Tower. Happy #CincoDeMayo! The best taco bowls are made in Trump Tower Grill. I love Hispanics! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 5, 2016 While he hasn't been photographed pumping iron like current Speaker of the House Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wisconsin, or playing a game of pickup like his predecessor president Barack Obama, the 70-year-old has not shied away from his favorite pastime, golfing, which he considers a means of conducting business, rather than a workout. As of his first 100 days in office, Mr. Trump had been recorded playing golf over 19 times at his various golf clubs across the country. Mr. Trump's personal physician Dr. Harold N. Bornstein of Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan said of then-candidate Trump in December of 2015 was in "excellent health," and added that if elected, Mr. Trump would be the "healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency." The doctor's statement was quickly questioned given the high fitness levels of presidents like Mr. Obama and former President George W. Bush -- both of whom were much younger than Trump when they were elected to office and exercise vigorously. Obama likes to play basketball, and Bush has been an avid runner and mountain biker.Following the release of his physical examination, Mr. Trump appeared on daytime television where he emphasized his "stamina" to hold the office, telling Dr. Mehmet Oz that "he feels as good today as he did when he was a 30." The exam went on to show that Trump, who does not use alcohol or tobacco,  takes a lipid lowering medication called rosuvastatin and a low dose aspirin, but weighs 236 pounds, which means his body mass index (BMI) of 29.5 would make him overweight. A BMI of 30 falls within the range of obesity.A final standard medical record was never released to the public or to reporter's who requested it. Instead the Trump campaign issued a statement, saying "We are pleased to disclose all of the test results which show that Mr. Trump is in excellent health, and has the stamina to endure — uninterrupted — the rigors of a punishing and unprecedented presidential campaign and, more importantly, the singularly demanding job of President of the United States."While Mr. Trump feels he's the picture of health, medical experts disagree with the president's lax statements on exercise. The Centers for Disease Control recommends that adults 65 years of age or older should do at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity, such as brisk walking, every week, in addition to muscle-strengthening activities like lifting weights two or more days a week. The American Academy of Family Physicians echoes those recommendations, stating — in contrast to Trump's beliefs — that older adults derive distinct benefits from aerobic exercise, strength training, flexibility and balance training. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/former-defense-secretary-robert-gates-on-how-to-tell-the-president-hes-wrong/
Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, who served under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, said that he's confident Trump cabinet members have the ability to lend advice, concerns and criticism to President Donald Trump. In an interview for "Face the Nation" on Sunday, Gates told John Dickerson that correcting the president when he's "heading down the wrong path" requires "a certain tactical skill," and current Trump cabinet members like Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, Defense Secretary James Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson have it. "I still have confidence that the people that I know personally, people like Kelly and Mattis and Tillerson, are the kind of people who will tell the president if he's [Mr. Trump] headed down the wrong path," Gates said. "You know, there are a lot of different ways to do this with a boss. I mean, you don't walk in and say, 'That's the dumbest thing you've ever done, or at least this week.' But it's another to say, 'You know, there's a different way to do this that might come out better.'" Gates also opened up about his many disagreements with Mr. Obama in his first term as president. Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates says it is the view of Russian President Vladmir Putin that the United States "has been interfering in h... "I had some significant disagreements at various times with President Obama over the defense budget, over how we would get rid of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell,' and so on," he said. "And we would go at it sometimes in the Oval Office, in private. But at the end, more often than not, he would stand up and smile and say, 'You sure I can't get you to stay for another year?'"However, there's a certain risk to such candor, Gates admitted."In any setting, let's be honest, most bosses say, 'I want your candor. I want you to tell me when you think I'm doing something wrong,' until you do. And then a lot of people have found out, 'Well, maybe they didn't want that candor after all.' And have found themselves out on the street," he said.The key for White House advisers, Gates recommended, is figuring out how blunt to be with a president on a selective case-by-case basis. "You have to be judicious about it," Gates said.He elaborated: "If you're going in carping at your boss every day, you're probably not going to last very long. But I think on the big things, that's where it's important to tell yourself, 'This is important for this person. It's important for the country. And I owe it to them to disagree.'" Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/white-house-staff-shakeup-coming/
Talk of White House firings and shakeups have been nearly constant since Inauguration Day. That said, over the weekend, sources inside and outside the White House say that President Trump's frustration with the direction of his agenda is real and that staff changes -- likely starting in the communications staff -- are coming. Before assuming the role of White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer was communications director for the Republican National Committee. Now as th... "Everyone knows it's coming. The question is now, or August? Things can't keep going the way they are," a senior Trump administration official told me. White House press secretary Sean Spicer and communications director Mike Dubke are under the microscope now. The White House sent word out over the weekend that it wanted suggestions for a new press secretary. There have been reports that Fox News' Kimberly Guilfoyle is being considered -- she had originally been seriously considered for the job during the transition. Spicer is said to have spent some time with Mr. Trump on Sunday, and that may have stabilized his position.Spicer doesn't comment on whether Trump recorded Comey conversations Democrats in Congress are threatening to vote against any FBI director nominee unless a special prosecutor is appointed to take over the Russia i... The main impediment to White House staffing changes continues to be what it always has been -- who are the replacements? This is a factor that particularly influences chief of staff Reince Priebus, White House Counsel Don McGahn and chief White House strategist Steve Bannon. While some would be interested in such high-level posts, experience in the campaign or a solid working relationship with Mr. Trump are often lacking. Scarcity has created some degree of job security for those in the West Wing and under pressure to create better results. Another factor under consideration is the damage a disgruntled former senior staff member could do outside the White House.Communications director Mike Dubke has some vulnerability. He was brought in to be communications director when Spicer was asked to focus on the press secretary job and drop the time-consuming obligations of communications director. The former is the face of the White House, who briefs the press and functions as the contact for their questions. The communications director oversees the White House messaging and promotes its agenda. Dubke has no attachment to Mr. Trump and has always been something of an outsider. He's not a Trump loyalist and did not work for the campaign. He also has few real backers in the West Wing. Dubke could easily be made a fall guy, but should he be dismissed, this alone would not constitute a serious staff shakeup.The central question around all of this is the depth of Trump's frustration and how much change he wants to set in motion before his first big foreign trip, where communications will be key in terms of the message presented by the White House and the narrative they end up with. Several people told me this weekend they expect any staff decisions to be made Monday or early Tuesday, and they assume if nothing is announced by Tuesday, no changes would be made until after Trump returns from his overseas trip. Anderson Cooper reports on the effect Trump’s new immigration policy has had on a community in Indiana after a longtime resident is deported
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/former-cia-deputy-director-michael-morell-on-ransomware-cyberattacks-north-korea-missiles/
This past week's ransomware attack, in which 200,000 computer users in 150 countries were affected, was unparalleled in its scope and sophistication, said former CIA deputy director and CBS News senior national security contributor Michael Morell. Starting Friday, unprecedented cyber attacks disabled computer networks in at least 150 countries, including the U.S. The so-called "ransomware" ... "We have never seen a cyberattack with this kind of breadth," Morell said on "CBS This Morning" on Monday.In the attack, a computer user's files are encrypted and made no longer readable. Hackers would demand $300 in ransom to decode them, or they would be destroyed.The malware program is called "WannaCry," and it was first uncovered in documents stolen from the U.S. National Security Agency, exposing a vulnerability to Microsoft's operating system.Cyberattack's grip may grow as workweek starts worldwide, experts warnMorell said the "WannaCry" cyberattack was also notable for its sophistication. "There are two pieces to this: One was basic phishing attacks to get inside networks; that happens every day. But the second piece was lateral movements inside of a network once you are inside. So it spread very, very rapidly, and that is very unusual, and very frightening."Former CIA deputy director and CBS News senior national security contributor Michael Morell. He said it was more likely that organized crime was behind the attack rather than a nation state, given the demands for ransom in order to free up the encrypted data. "So that makes it the largest cybercrime attack we have ever seen before," Morell said. When asked by the United States fared much better than other countries from the attack, Morell credited America's cybersecurity ("better than any other place in the world") and the fact that the U.S. has appropriate and up-to-date versions of Microsoft compared to other parts of the world, where older or pirated versions of the Microsoft operating system are being used. "That's one of the reasons Russia was hit so hard: Pirated versions can't be patched, either," he said.On the matter of North Korea, Morell was asked if their recent missile tests were a game-changer in their relations with the U.S. Morell doubted it: "You have to be careful of taking the North Koreans at face value. They've made claims before in the past that haven't been true." North Korea says it successfully tested a missile capable of carrying a heavy warhead. Analysts in South Korea say it flew higher and longer than... But he added that the recent missile launches, successful or not, underscored the acceleration of Pyongyang's missile development program. "It's not slowing and it's not going to stop. They are willing to sit down and negotiate with us but they're not willing to give up these weapons or their missiles," he said. Morell was also asked to weigh in on President Trump's search for a replacement for FBI Director James Comey, whom he fired last week in the wake of the Bureau's growing investigation into his administration's links to Russia. When asked if any candidate stands out to him, Morell said no. "I think what's important -- and I think it is widely-recognized -- that the individual chosen has to be non-partisan, has to be objective, and has to be seen as such by both Democrats and Republicans. And that is the only way this is going to work." In the last seven years, the company has outperformed Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google, with its stock going from $9 a share to over $180 today Born in South Carolina, Marcus King was brought up on the blues, performing with his bluesman father, Marvin. Last year the band released their critically acclaimed second album produced by Warren Haynes of The Allman Brothers
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/supreme-court-rejects-appeal-to-reinstate-north-carolina-voter-id-law/
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Monday rejected an appeal to reinstate North Carolina's voter identification law, which a lower court said targeted African-Americans "with almost surgical precision."The justices left in place the lower court ruling striking down the law's photo ID requirement and reduction in early voting.The situation was complicated when Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper and Attorney General Josh Stein tried to withdraw the appeal, which was first filed when Republican Pat McCrory was governor.Chief Justice John Roberts said the political situation created uncertainty over who is authorized to seek review of the lower court ruling.The dispute is similar to the court fight over Texas' voter ID law, also struck down as racially discriminatory.Republicans in both states moved to enact new voting measures after the Supreme Court in 2013 struck down a provision of the federal Voting Rights Act that had required them to get advance approval before changing laws dealing with elections.Voters, civil rights groups and the Obama administration quickly filed lawsuits challenging the new laws. The Trump administration already has dropped its objections to the Texas law.Shortly before Trump took office in January, the Justice Department urged the Supreme Court to reject the North Carolina appeal.When the law passed, North Carolina Republicans said voter ID is a sound requirement to increase the integrity of elections. But the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the state provided no evidence of the kind of in-person voter fraud the ID mandate would address. The Richmond, Virginia-based court said the law was enacted with intentional bias against black voters. The law was amended in 2015 to include a method for people unable to get a photo ID to still vote.Following the appellate ruling, the state asked the high court to allow the challenged provisions to remain in effect in November's election. The justices rejected the request by virtue of a 4-4 tie on most of the challenged provisions, with the four more conservative justices supporting the state's bid.Roberts cautioned Monday that the rejection of the appeal is not a comment on the court's view about the substance of the law.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/oo_seMotmso/index.html
House to vote Thursday on Obamacare repeal bill House to vote Thursday on Obamacare repeal bill By MJ Lee, Lauren Fox, Tami Luhby and Phil Mattingly, CNN Updated 0505 GMT (1305 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes 01:42 Story highlights The House will vote Thursday on the GOP bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, according to two GOP aides" Were gonna pass it. We're gonna pass it," said Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy Washington ( CNN) The House will vote Thursday on the Republican bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, setting up a dramatic moment that could give President Donald Trump the significant legislative victory he's been seeking. Top Republicans are very confident. Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy emerged from Speaker Paul Ryan's office Wednesday night all but triumphant." We will be voting on the health care votes tomorrow. Because we have enough votes. It'll pass. It's a good bill," Mc Carthy, R- California, told a scrum of reporters gathered outside. Peppered with questions, Mc Carthy responded enthusiastically: " We're gonna pass it. We're gonna pass it. Let's be optimistic about life!" The dramatic and long-awaited announcement put to an end a flurry of speculation on Wednesday about whether the Republican health care bill would come up on the House floor for a vote -- or collapse one more time in another embarrassment. Read More An eleventh-hour deal announced earlier in the day renewed momentum as leaders furiously lobbied undecided or skeptical lawmakers on the plan that had been teetering on the brink of collapse. The bill advanced out of the Rules committee Wednesday night. House leaders have continued to make clear that if everything goes their way, their preference was to have a vote Thursday. But they were also insistent: They would not call a vote unless they believed it would pass. Vice President Mike Pence had spent hours on Capitol Hill Wednesday, while members were seen walking in and out of the speaker's office all day. White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus told Gloria Borger he is "optimistic" about the outcome. A notable change in mood came after GOP Reps. Fred Upton and Billy Long met with President Donald Trump at the White House and flipped their votes from "no" to "yes." Trump committed to backing an amendment spending $8 billion over five years to fund high-risk pools and go toward patients with pre-existing conditions. In the search for votes, the focus has been almost entirely on moderate lawmakers concerned that the GOP bill will erode too many protections in the Affordable Care Act. Democrats, however, will make the case the bill is far too extreme, no matter what tweaks are made in the end. As originally introduced, the bill would leave 24 million fewer people insured by 2026 than under Obamacare, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said. There will not be a new CBO report before Thursday's vote on the legislation. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi blasted the bill and decision to vote Thursday. " Forcing a vote without a CBO score shows that Republicans are terrified of the public learning the full consequences of their plan to push Americans with pre-existing conditions into the cold," Pelosi said in a statement. " But tomorrow, House Republicans are going to tattoo this moral monstrosity to their foreheads, and the American people will hold them accountable." Importantly, the House Freedom Caucus, a group of conservatives who helped scuttle the previous bill in March, now supports the legislation. And it continued to back the bill Wednesday, even with the new spending being added. Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows said only one member of the group opposes the bill. " We're not going to lose any votes because of it," he said. What the GOP health care bill really says about pre-existing conditions Around the same time that Upton and Long unveiled their moves to "yes," their colleague, Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida, declared on Twitter that he opposed the bill. " I just reiterated to @ House GOP leaders that # AHCA in its current form fails to sufficiently protect Americans with pre-existing conditions," Curbelo said. New Jersey Rep. Leonard Lance, a moderate Republican opposed to the bill, also told CNN Wednesday morning that Upton's proposed change would not sway him to support the health care legislation. Lance also noted that he has not heard from Trump or Pence in several weeks. Moderate Reps. Charlie Dent, Frank Lo Biondo and Jaime Herrera Beutler say they still oppose the bill even with the Upton amendment. Full-court press from Trump The White House is in a full-court press to rally GOP support. Trump and House leaders failed last week to garner enough support to hold a vote on the bill ahead of the President's symbolic 100th day in office. The President called about a dozen wavering Republican lawmakers throughout the day Tuesday, urging them to back the bill, a White House official said. Upton and Long were joined by GOP Reps. Greg Walden and Michael Burgess in their meeting with Trump Wednesday morning. Upton had rocked Capitol Hill Tuesday by publicly coming out against the GOP health care bill. His amendment would add $8 billion over five years to fund high-risk pools and go toward patients with pre-existing conditions in states that seek waivers under the Republican legislation. The measure already included $130 billion in the fund. How to handle coverage for Americans with pre-existing conditions has been a struggle for Republicans seeking to fulfill their longstanding desire to repeal Obamacare. A major pillar of the law is the ban on insurance companies from discriminating against people based on their past medical conditions. For decades prior to the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, many Americans were unable to even afford or obtain insurance because of their past medical history. As Obamacare has shifted that norm, Republicans have grown increasingly careful in recent years to say they would not repeal protections for people with pre-existing conditions, wary of being branded the party that wants to take that protection away. High-risk pools High-risk pools have long been a favorite tool of Republicans, but they have a very checkered past. They were typically severely underfunded, charged participants high premiums, excluded coverage of pre-existing conditions initially and had waiting lists for enrollment. Whip count: Republicans who oppose new health care bill Some 35 states ran high risk pools prior to Obamacare. In 2011, states had to kick in $1.2 billion to cover 226,000 people enrolled in the programs. Upton's plan likely wouldn't make much of a difference." You just aren't going to cover many people with $8 billion over five years," said Karen Pollitz, senior fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation. What's in the bill? The GOP health care bill would eliminate Obamacare taxes on the wealthy, insurers and others, and get rid of the individual mandate imposed by Obamacare, officially known as the Affordable Care Act. Instead of the Obamacare subsidies that are tied to income and premiums, the GOP plan would provide Americans with refundable tax credits based mainly on age to purchase health insurance. The legislation would also allow insurers to charge higher premiums to those in their 50s and early 60s, compared to younger consumers. It would also significantly curtail federal support for Medicaid and allow states to require able-bodied adults to work. After 2020, states that expanded Medicaid would no longer receive enhanced federal funding to cover low-income adults, and those that hadn't expanded would be immediately barred from doing so. And it would allow states to relax some key Obamacare protections of those with pre-existing conditions, which are among the health reform law's most popular provisions. States could apply for waivers to allow insurers to offer skimpier policies that don't cover the 10 essential health benefits mandated by Obamacare. Also, insurers would be able to charge higher premiums to those with medical issues if they let their coverage lapse. States requesting waivers would have to set up programs -- such as high-risk pools -- to protect insurers from high-cost patients. However, the GOP bill doesn't touch one another beloved piece of Obamacare -- letting children stay on their parents' insurance plans until the age of 26. CNN's Jeff Zeleny, Dan Berman and Melissa Giaimo contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/nzjVdqqSXng/index.html
House GOP lawmakers have made some more changes to their bill aimed at repealing Obamacare ... or major portions of it. Leaders from the conservative and moderate wings of the Republican Party hashed out a deal over the April recess to try to get more votes for the legislation, which was shelved in late March after failing to get enough votes to pass. No vote has been scheduled yet on the revised bill. The original bill, called the American Health Care Act, had a lot of critics -- ranging from conservative lawmakers to moderate ones to insurers to the AARP. Conservatives complained that the bill does not fully repeal Obamacare and that many provisions are too similar to the health reform law. Insurers worried that Republicans would cut federal support for Medicaid and tax credits, leaving many of their customers without coverage. And the AARP feared that Americans in their 50s and early 60s would see their premiums skyrocket and federal assistance reduced, though lawmakers are now promising to provide this group extra assistance. Proponents of the bill said it would save the individual health market from collapse. The legislation would create a patient-centered health care system that provides Americans more choice, greater control and lower costs, they argued. But opponents said it could reverse the gains in coverage that have been made since the Affordable Care Act was enacted in 2010. The Congressional Budget Office found that 24 million fewer people would be insured by 2026 under the GOP bill. The CBO estimates do not include the most recent amendment to the bill, however. Repeal the Obamacare subsidies. The GOP's plan would eliminate the Obamacare subsidies, which are refundable tax credits based on a person's income and cost of coverage in their area. More than eight in 10 enrollees on the Obamacare exchanges receive this assistance, but individuals making more than $47,500 and families of four earning more than $97,200 do not qualify. This provision would take effect in 2020. Provide refundable tax credits based on age and income instead. The Republicans want to issue refundable tax credits to help people afford coverage on the individual market, but these credits will be based mainly on a person's age. The credits will range from $2,000 for 20-somethings to $4,000 for those in their early 60s. The credits will also have an income cap. Those making more than $75,000 would see their tax credits start to phase out, and an enrollee making more than $215,000 would no longer be eligible. Families with incomes above $150,000 would see their credits dwindle, while those earning more than $290,000 would no longer qualify. This provision would take effect in 2020. Push provision for bigger tax credits for older Americans to Senate. The House is setting aside roughly $85 billion in funding to provide additional tax credits to help older people buy policies on the individual market. But representatives are letting the Senate handle the crafting of the legislation. Many older consumers would face huge premium hikes under the GOP bill because its tax credits are not as generous as Obamacare's subsidies for lower-income enrollees in their 50s and early 60s. Repeal the individual and employer mandates. The GOP's bill would get rid of the Obamacare requirement that people must have health coverage or face a tax penalty. It would also eliminate the requirement that employers with at least 50 employees provide health insurance to their workers. Under Obamacare, these companies were required to provide affordable insurance to staffers who work more than 30 hours a week. They would face a penalty if they did not meet this criteria and their employee sought subsidies on the exchanges. These provisions take effect retroactively to 2016. Put in place a continuous coverage requirement instead. The original Republican plan seeks to allow insurers to impose a 30% surcharge on the premiums of those who let their coverage lapse for at least 63 days. The plan would enable insurers to levy this surcharge for one year, but it would only apply to policies bought in the individual or small group markets. Under the latest amendment, states that seek waivers could replace this provision with one that allows insurers to charge consumers who've had a gap in coverage based on their health status. Allow states to obtain waivers to let insurers charge consumers more if they have pre-existing conditions. States could get waivers that would allow carriers to set premiums based on enrollees' medical backgrounds under several circumstances. Those enrollees would have to have let their coverage lapse, and the state would have to set up a risk program -- such as a high-risk pool -- that, in some cases, could provide help to those being charged higher premiums. Allow states to seek waivers of the federal requirement that insurers cover 10 essential health benefits. States could seek waivers that would allow insurers to sell plans that don't include all the services mandated by the Affordable Care Act. Under Obamacare, carriers must provide outpatient care, emergency services, hospitalization, maternity, mental health and substance abuse, prescription drugs, rehabilitation services, lab work, preventative care and pediatric services. This could lower premiums somewhat and give consumers a wider choice of plans. But it would also make it harder for people to buy comprehensive coverage and weaken the protections for those with pre-existing conditions. Create the patient and state stability fund. Lawmakers initially set aside $100 billion through 2026 for states to lower consumers' and insurers' costs in a number of ways. Among them: offering financial assistance to high-risk patients, reducing the cost of providing coverage in the individual market, promoting access to preventative services as well as dental, vision, maternity, mental health and substance abuse services, and helping people reduce their out-of-pocket costs. The GOP added $15 billion to the fund for 2020 for states to cover maternity, mental health and substance abuse services, and then another $15 billion to create so-called invisible risk pools to help insurers handle high-cost policyholders. At the last minute, lawmakers added another $8 billion over five years to support high-risk pools in states that seek waivers to opt out of two key Obamacare insurance provisions. Repeal cost-sharing subsidies to lower deductibles and co-pays. The bill would kill the additional help that individuals earning less than roughly $30,000 a year receive to cover their out-of-pocket costs. More than half of the enrollees on the Obamacare exchanges receive these subsidies. This provision would take effect in 2020. Delay the Cadillac tax. The Republican plan keeps but delays the controversial Cadillac tax, which calls for imposing a 40% excise tax on generous employer health insurance plans. Originally scheduled to go into effect in 2018, the law would have taxed employers on any premiums that exceed $10,200 for individual policies and $27,500 for family plans. After intense lobbying by companies and unions, lawmakers pushed back the start date to 2020. The Republican plan delays it until 2026. Loosen the age-band so insurers can charge older folks more. Under Obamacare, insurers could only charge older enrollees three times more than younger policy holders. The GOP bill would widen that band to five-to-one, which would hike premiums for those in their 50s and early 60s, but reduce them for younger folks. States would also be allowed to seek waivers to allow insurers to charge older consumers even more than five times younger ones. Revamp Medicaid funding. The GOP bill would send the states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap. States could also opt to receive federal Medicaid funding as a block grant for the adults and children in their program. Under a block grant, states would get a fixed amount of federal funding each year, regardless of how many participants are in the program. States, however, cannot opt to receive block grant funding for elderly and disabled participants. Their federal support for those groups would still be based on enrollment. Either option would limit federal responsibility, shifting that burden to the states. However, since states don't have the money to make up the difference, they would likely either reduce eligibility, curtail benefits or cut provider payments. The block grant would be more restrictive since the funding level would not adjust for increases in enrollment, which often happens in bad economic times. End enhanced federal funding for Medicaid expansion. It would also end the enhanced match rate for Medicaid expansion for new enrollees starting in 2020. Those already in the program could stay as long as they remain continuously insured. States that have not already expanded would not be allowed to do so, starting immediately. Allow states to institute work requirement for Medicaid. States would now have the option of requiring able-bodied Medicaid recipients to work, participate in job training programs or do community service. Pregnant women, children under the age of 19, single parents of children under age six and single parents of children with disabilities are exempt. Give most New York counties relief from Medicaid payments. Lawmakers added a provision that would ban the federal government from reimbursing New York State for Medicaid funds raised by counties outside of New York City. The upstate counties and Long Island send $2.3 billion to the state to help pay for Medicaid. The amendment would give the state the incentive to stop passing down Medicaid costs to the counties, though state officials say it would mean fewer people would be covered and benefits would have to be curtailed. Restore federal support for hospitals who cover many uninsured patients. The legislation would restore Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital payments in 2018 for states that didn't expand Medicaid and in 2020 for states that did. Under Obamacare, these funds were set to disappear by 2020 since the original law called for all states to expand Medicaid. Create more generous Health Savings Accounts. Seeking to get more people to save money for health care expenses, the Republican bill includes several provisions aimed at making Health Savings Accounts more attractive. It raises the annual contribution limits to equal the maximum sum of the deductible and out-of-pocket expenses one would pay in a high-deductible insurance plan. So the limit would be at least $6,550 for an individual and $13,100 for a family in 2018. The bill would also end the Obamacare prohibition on paying for over-the-counter medications with funds from tax-advantaged accounts, such as HSAs and flexible spending accounts. And it reduces the penalty from 20% to 10% if funds from an HSA are used for non-medical purposes. These provisions begin in 2018. Ban excess tax credits from going into Health Savings Accounts. Enrollees whose tax credits exceed the cost of their premiums would not be able to put the additional funds in Health Savings Accounts. Some conservatives are concerned these funds could be used to pay for abortions. Lift contribution caps on flexible spending accounts. Obamacare put a cap on annual contributions to flexible spending accounts based on cost of living figures. For 2017, that cap was $2,600. The GOP bill would do away with that limit as of December 31, 2017. Offer two tax cuts for the wealthy. The bill would eliminate two taxes that Obamacare imposed on the well-to-do to help pay for the law: The 3.8% tax on investment income and the 0.9% Medicare payroll tax on incomes over $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for married couples who file jointly. The investment income tax would disappear in 2017, but the Medicare payroll tax would remain until 2023. Repeal the taxes on health insurers, prescription drug makers and medical devices. The bill seeks to lift the annual tax Obamacare imposed on drug makers and health insurers and It would also get rid of the 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices that was put in place. The taxes would disappear in 2017. Say goodbye to the tanning tax. The bill would eliminate a 10% tax on indoor tanning services that was introduced as part of Obamacare. It would take effect in 2017. Repeal the tax break for health insurance executives' pay. The legislation would roll back the Obamacare provision that placed a $500,000 limit on deductions for each executive's compensation. Top insurers pay their leaders millions in compensation every year so this provision could mean a nice tax savings for the companies. The provision would begin in 2017. Reduce the income threshold for deducting medical expenses. Under the GOP bill, taxpayers would be able to deduct medical expenses that exceed 5.8% of their adjusted gross income. Obamacare had raised the threshold to 10%. This would begin in 2017. Defund Planned Parenthood. In keeping with long-standing Republican beliefs, the legislation prohibits federal funding for Planned Parenthood. But the restriction is only for a year. Eliminate support for CDC Prevention and Public Health Fund. The bill would eliminate nearly $1 billion in funding for this program, which Republicans call a slush fund. The Centers for Disease Control says the money supports heart disease and stroke prevention, immunization, lead poisoning prevention and diabetes prevention, mostly through grants to states and local programs. Increase funding for community health centers. The bill would provide an additional $422 million this year for community-based outpatient facilities that provide health services -- such as medical, dental and mental health -- to lower-income populations. Allow insurers to sell plans that cover less of the costs. Obamacare created four tiers of coverage, each with a requirement to cover a certain share of policyholders' costs, on average. The bill would eliminate this rule. Presumably, insurers would be able to offer plans with higher deductibles and co-pays. However, since the legislation does not lift the cap on out-of-pocket expenses, insurers could not require consumers to pay more than that for covered services. The deductibles for many bronze-tier plans are already pegged to that cap. Requiring insurers to offer coverage to those with pre-existing conditions. Insurers would still be required to offer policies to those with pre-existing conditions, but they could charge them more if consumers let their coverage lapse. Allowing kids under age 26 to remain on their parents policies. The Republicans want to keep this Obamacare provision, which has helped insure young adults. By one estimate, seven million people get coverage as a result. Keeping annual and lifetime limits. Prior to Obamacare, many insurers in the individual market had caps on how much they'd cover each year or over an enrollee's lifetime. Some would not pay anything after an enrollee's care costs more than $500,000 or $1 million. Obamacare banned those limits for essential health benefits. However, insurers could cap payments on treatments not covered by the policy. Retaining out-of-pocket maximums. Under Obamacare, consumers don't have to pay anything after they hit the out-of-pocket maximum for in-network providers and for essential health benefits. For 2017, the max is $7,150 for an individual and $14,300 for a family. This limit doesn't apply if one goes to an out-of-network doctor or hospital or receives a treatment not covered by the policy. Start your day right with the latest news driving global markets, from major stock movers and key economic headlines to important events on the calendar. Daily newsletter, Sunday through Friday. Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S& P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/TUg8bxiI-r0/index.html
House OKs bill to fund government through September House OKs bill to fund government through September By Ted Barrett, CNN Updated 2050 GMT (0450 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Congress strikes budget deal, shutdown averted (13 Videos) Congress strikes budget deal, shutdown averted Breaking down Donald Trump's budget Trump unveils first budget proposal Sen. Inhofe: EPA is brainwashing our kids WH demands deep cuts for State Dept, U. N. Coast Guard, TSA could face deep budget cuts Rep.: Coast Guard budget cuts don't make sense Breaking down Trump's budget proposal Trump's budget plan has EPA bracing for cuts Trump's budget plan could hit State Department Trump previews budget plan on ' Fox & Friends' Trump: Federal budget is a mess, we'll fix it Rep. Garrett: We need route to balanced budget Story highlights Democrats and Republicans have fought over who won in the spending bill fight The most recent deal was reached over the weekend ( CNN) The House voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to approve a $1.1 trillion government funding bill that keep agencies operating through the end of September. The vote was 309 to 118. The Senate is expected to clear it Thursday and send to President Donald Trump for his anticipated signature before Friday's deadline when the government would run out of money. The agreement, which was reached after weeks of talks, was a rare bipartisan achievement for Congress and the White House. But leading up to the vote, Republicans and Democrats battled over who which party came out on top. Republicans cited boosts in funding for border security and the military as preserving conservative principles. Read More Democrats cited increases in domestic programs and blocking money from going to Trump's campaign promise of a border wall with Mexico, a key demand for Democrats. RELATED: What's in and what's out in the latest government spending bill Both sides claimed wins for extending an important health insurance program for retired coal miners and for increasing funding for the opioid crisis. Avoiding a potentially damaging shutdown was also a win for all sides.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/lZK4aMgoUTo/index.html
10 things we learned from FBI Director James Comey's Senate hearing By Tom Lo Bianco, CNN Updated 2129 GMT (0529 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Comey: Clinton emails forwarded to Weiner (13 Videos) Comey: Clinton emails forwarded to Weiner Comey: Clinton, Trump probes treated the same Recap: Comey hearing in less than 3 minutes NSA chief denies British spying accusation FBI director asked about Manafort questioning What we learned from the Russia hearing Comey: No info to support wiretapping tweets Rep. Adam Schiff: Russia will meddle again Hearing held on Russia activity in US election FBI Director Comey's entire opening statement Who is James Comey? The wiretapping saga in 2 minutes Timeline of Moscow meddling allegations Story highlights FBI director James Comey described his feelings after Bill Clinton and Loretta Lynch met He also confirmed there's an FBI investigation still ongoing into Russian meddling into the election ( CNN) FBI Director James Comey addressed senators for four hours Wednesday, giving testimony to the Senate judiciary committee mostly related to Russia's meddling in the US election last year. In that time, Comey touched on a variety of subtopics and revealed a lot of his thinking that had gone on behind the scenes. Here are 10 things we learned: 1. Bill Clinton's meeting with Attorney General Loretta Lynch proved disastrous Comey said he decided to go public with his findings from the Hillary Clinton email investigation following former President Bill Clinton met privately with Attorney General Loretta Lynch. Comey said he felt he had to prove the FBI was independent from political influence. Read More" Her meeting with President Clinton on that airplane was the capper for me, and I then said, ' You know what? The department cannot, by itself, credibly end this,'" Comey said. Not long after their meeting, Comey publicly chastised Hillary Clinton for using a private email in a news conference that laid the groundwork for the October surprise revelation by Comey that he was looking again at her emails. 2. FBI investigators thought Anthony Weiner had the missing Clinton email trove FBI investigators reviewing former Rep. Anthony Weiner's computer in an unrelated case discovered he had thousands of emails from Hillary Clinton's Verizon Blackberry account -- which they believed were the missing Clinton emails, Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee. That discovery set the ball rolling on a series of events that many Democrats argue -- including Hillary Clinton -- cost the election. Comey said he alerted Congress of the finding, with the full expectation that lawmakers would leak that discovery. By the time investigators determined they were not the missing emails -- and it did not change their initial decision not to seek prosecution -- the national narrative had already shifted back to Clinton's emails, with just days left before the election. 3. The FBI investigated Weiner and Abedin for mishandling classified information After the discovery of Clinton's emails, the FBI opened an investigation into whether Weiner and Huma Abedin had mishandled classified information in Clinton's emails. But, Comey said, they determined there was no criminal intent from either one and decided not to seek charges." Somebody should be prosecuted for letting Anthony Weiner have access to classified intelligence," Sen. Lindsey Graham said. Comey replied: " There's no Anthony Weiner statute." 4. Sally Yates alerted Comey that Flynn could be vulnerable to blackmail Comey confirmed that then-acting Attorney General Sally Yates alerted him in January that former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn had lied about his conversations with Russian ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak, and could be vulnerable to blackmail. Yates is expected to tell a Senate Judiciary subcommittee led by Sen. Lindsey Graham the same thing in testimony this coming Monday. RELATED - Sources: Former Acting AG Yates to contradict administration about Flynn at hearing5. Russia is still "active" in US politics" Is it fair to say the Russian government is still involved in American politics?" Graham asked. " Yes," Comey said. Comey and other intelligence officials have publicly said they're counting on Russia trying to influence US elections from here on, using similar tactics to what they used in 2016. One rebuttal that Comey said will work is creating "good troll armies" online to counter Russian disinformation campaign. 6. Comey sees a difference between regular journalism and 'intelligence porn' Comey has forever given the world a new term for Wiki Leaks' unmitigated style of unauthorized intelligence dumps: "intelligence porn." Responding to a question from Sen. Ben Sasse whether he considered Wiki Leaks to be journalism, Comey went off: " To my mind it crosses a line when it moves from being about trying to educate a public and instead just becomes about intelligence porn, frankly," Comey said. " Just pushing out information about sources and methods without regard to interest, without regard to the First Amendment values that normally underlie press reporting, and simply becomes a conduit for the Russian intelligence services or some other adversary of the United States."7. The Justice Department is going after leakers Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley peppered Comey, pressing him on what the FBI was doing to stop the recent spate of leaks. The line of questioning is similar to questions House Republicans pressed Comey on during the House Intelligence Committee hearing in March. " Leaks are always a problem, but especially in the last three-to-six months," Comey said, noting that he wouldn't confirm any specific investigations into leaks. " Where there is a leak of classified information, the FBI -- if it's our information -- makes a referral to the Department of Justice."8. Comey felt "nauseous" thinking he affected the election Comey clearly labored over the decision to announce, in October, that he was looking again at Clinton's emails, saying the thought that he affected the outcome made him feel "mildly nauseous."" Look, this is terrible. It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact on the election," Comey said. " But honestly, it wouldn't change the decision." 9. Trump blasts don't bother Comey Wednesday's public hearing marked the second time Trump knocked his own FBI director around the time of his public hearing. In March, Trump sub-tweeted Comey throughout the actual House hearing, repeatedly misstating testimony he was delivering. Late Tuesday night, Trump tweeted " FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!" RELATED: Everyone hates James Comey. And he's fine with that. Comey brushed it off Wednesday, saying he didn't give Clinton a free pass. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer later explained that Trump "has confidence in the director." 10. The FBI is still investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia Graham asked Comey if the Trump Russia investigation was still under way. Comey responded, " Yes." RELATED: FBI's latest on Russia investigation? Comey isn't saying
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/w654xna6Ma8/index.html
James Comey hearing: FBI chief grilled on Russia, Clinton Comey hearing: FBI chief defends 'right choice' on handling Clinton email probe By Tom Lo Bianco, Manu Raju and Mary Kay Mallonee, CNN Updated 2029 GMT (0429 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Comey defends decision to reveal Clinton probe Comey defends decision to reveal Clinton probe 02:28 Story highlights James Comey testified at a Senate panel on Wednesday At least four congressional committees are investigating Russian meddling into the election ( CNN) FBI Director James Comey strongly defended Wednesday his decision to alert Congress just days before the 2016 election about his agency's investigation into emails potentially related to Hillary Clinton's personal server, telling senators while the idea of impacting the election made him "mildly nauseous," he would not change what he did. " It was a hard choice, I still believe in retrospect the right choice," Comey told senators at a judiciary committee hearing on oversight of his agency. " I can't consider for a second whose political fortunes will be affected." Comey faced sharp questions from both sides of the aisle and is testifying the day after both the sitting US President and the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee sharply criticized him for his role in the outcome of last year's presidential election. RELATED - Comey: Classified Clinton emails forwarded to Anthony Weiner He also said Russia to this day is actively involved in trying to influence US politics, emboldened after the outcome of last year's election. Read More" I think one of the lessons that the Russians may have drawn from this is: this works," Comey said. Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley originally called the Wednesday oversight hearing of the FBI to examine what the agency knows about a 2015 terrorist attack in Garland, Texas. But the broad oversight hearing almost immediately shifted to the FBI's investigation into Russian meddling in the US elections, a subject on which there are four congressional probes in progress that have led to a steady stream of revelations since President Donald Trump was elected. Comey has become an almost equally divisive figure for Republicans and Democrats for his impact on the 2016 elections. " A cloud of doubt hangs over the FBI's objectivity," Grassley said in his opening remarks, which listed a series of issues he took with the agency. The Iowa Republican added later, " The public's faith in the FBI, Congress, and our democratic process has been tested lately." Comey cited the meeting on the tarmac between former President Bill Clinton and then- Attorney General Loretta Lynch last year as a sign he was worried about leadership at the Justice Department's handling of its investigation." I'm not picking on the attorney general, Loretta Lynch, who I like very much, but her meeting with President Clinton on that airplane was the capper for me and I then said, you know what, the department cannot, by itself, credibly end this," Comey told the committee. Comey's revelation that the FBI was examining additional emails from Hillary Clinton that were discovered on disgraced former Rep. Anthony Weiner's computer, has led Democrats -- including Clinton herself -- to say it cost them the White House." I was on the way to winning until a combination of Jim Comey's letter on October 28 and Russian Wiki Leaks raised doubts in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me and got scared off," the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee said Tuesday in an interview conducted by CNN's Christiane Amanpour at the Women for Women International summit in New York. Ranking Democrat Dianne Feinstein used her first remarks to question the agency's timing and handling the Clinton investigation. " Why didn't you just do the investigation as you would normally, with no public announcement?" the California Democrat asked." Having repeatedly told this Congress we're done and there's nothing there, there's no case there, there's no case there, to restart in a hugely significant way, potentially finding the emails that would reflect on her intent from the beginning and not speak about it would require an act of concealment in my view," Comey responded as part of his lengthy answer explaining his letter to Congress. Most recently, CNN reported Tuesday that former acting Attorney General Sally Yates is prepared to testify before a Senate panel next week that she gave a forceful warning to the White House regarding then-national security adviser Michael Flynn and his conversations with the Russians nearly three weeks before he was fired, contradicting the administration's version of events. Comey, responding to a question Wednesday from Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, confirmed Yates discussed her assessment that Flynn may be vulnerable with him. Following those remarks, Trump criticized Comey the night before the hearing." FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony...... Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?" Trump said in a pair of tweets Tuesday. FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony...— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 3, 2017 ... Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 3, 2017 RELATED: How Michael Flynn lost his job in 23 days Senate Democrats grilled the FBI chief about his decisions in the final days of the US election last year and his timing for releasing that information." The most important investigation the FBI is currently conducting is into Russia's interference in our last presidential election," Sen. Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat on the Senate judiciary committee, told CNN Tuesday. " This isn't just about understanding Russian interference and potential coordination of some kind with the Trump campaign. This is about defending our next election as well." Meanwhile, Graham, who is leading his own investigation into Russia's interference in the election, said he still wants Comey to answer whether the FBI issued any warrants against the Trump campaign -- a question he asked months ago." I just want an answer. I just want to know what is going on here," Graham said Tuesday. " You had (former Director of National Intelligence James) Clapper say there was no surveillance of the Trump campaign or Trump Tower. You've got press reports a FISA warrant was issued for Carter Page because of his ties to Russia. I just want to know what happened. And if we can't do it in an open session, let's do it in a closed session." Wednesday's meeting will be the first of two consecutive hearings for Comey this week. The second will be a closed-door meeting with the House Intelligence Committee, focused largely on follow-up questions from their explosive first meeting in March. CNN's Evan Perez, Pamela Brown, Jim Sciutto and Dan Merica contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/bCtCQ3Yevqw/index.html
White House incorrectly refers to construction fence as border fence White House incorrectly refers to construction fence as border fence By Jasmine Lee, CNN Updated 0227 GMT (1027 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump's border wall pledge and reality Trump's border wall pledge and reality 05:15 Washington ( CNN) The scant border fence pointed out at a White House news briefing turns out to be a temporary construction fence, workers say. It's actually just part of the construction site and the chain-link fence was put by the workers to fill the gaps of an older border fence, according to the workers and law enforcement officials on the Sunland Park, New Mexico, site. At the White House briefing, Budget Director Mick Mulvaney on Tuesday pointed to photographs of a skimpy chain link fence and referred to it as the old US border wall." This doesn't stop drugs and doesn't stop criminal from crossing the border," Mulvaney said. " In fact, it doesn't stop hardly anything from crossing the border." When asked about where the site in the photo was, Mulvaney said he "didn't know where it [was] being built." 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/RRdeaBk9cBI/index.html
Democratic leaders decry GOP health bill at Emily's List gala Democratic leaders decry GOP health care bill at Emily's List gala By Sophie Tatum Updated 0323 GMT (1123 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Warren gives Trump an ' F' on first 100 days Warren gives Trump an ' F' on first 100 days 01:45 Washington ( CNN) While Republicans were holed up on Capitol Hill trying to pull together the votes to pass their health care plan, Democratic lawmakers slammed their efforts across town at a gala for Emily's List -- an organization dedicated to supporting and electing pro-abortion rights women candidates. " Tomorrow, House Republicans may vote to pass one of the most damaging bills for women in the history of the country," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said at the event at the Washington Hilton. Female leaders from the Democratic Party were out in force Wednesday evening -- the gala's speakers included Pelosi, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Rep. Maxine Waters, Sen. Tammy Duckworth and former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, among others. Many of them spoke out against the heath care bill, which is scheduled for a vote Thursday." Trumpcare will raise your health costs, destroy the coverage for millions of Americans and undermine a woman's right to choose," Pelosi said. " We must not let them succeed." Read More The lawmakers' message of resistance extended beyond health care -- the speakers were vocal about Trump's so-called Muslim ban, the environment and the importance of funding for women's health centers that provide abortions, among other topics." Men like Donald Trump come to power when their country's already in deep trouble, when their economies (are) already deeply flawed and when people in those countries begin to lose hope for a better future and start looking for someone to blame," said Warren, who noted that her first political donation was to Emily's List. " I've got news for Donald Trump: Up against our army, he doesn't stand a chance," Warren said. While acknowledging the pain of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's 2016 loss in their eyes, speakers also said there was reason to celebrate this election cycle -- with four new female members of the Senate and eight elected to the House. " It hurts because Donald Trump is so manifestly unfit for the presidency," Emily's List President Stephanie Schriock said. " It hurts because Hillary Clinton was more ready for the challenges of that office than any candidate in generations." Emily's List has raised more than $500 million for its chosen candidates, and has trained more than 9,000 women to run for office, according to the group. " We must never stop fighting -- fight, fight, fight," Giffords said.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/ZbB4rNjM75g/index.html
Congressman describes key health care meeting with President Congressman describes key health care meeting with President By Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 0219 GMT (1019 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes 01:42 Story highlights President Donald Trump met with GOP Reps. Michael Burgess, Greg Walden, Fred Upton and Billy Long on Wednesday Rep. Burgess: ' I don't think leadership would bring this forward if they were not certain of success' Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump seemed frustrated going into Wednesday's meeting with GOP lawmakers to discuss the new health care bill, Rep. Michael Burgess said. " I will be honest with you, the President said we were through adding amendments, I'm sure he is as frustrated as many of us are," the Texas Republican -- who met with Trump alongside Reps. Greg Walden, Fred Upton and Billy Long -- said on CNN's " Erin Burnett Out Front." Burgess suggested Trump's frustration stemmed from the Republican Party's previous failed attempt at repealing and replacing Obamacare. Now, conservatives are struggling to get many party members on board for the new GOP health care bill, which would eliminate Obamacare taxes on the wealthy, insurers and others, and get rid of the individual mandate imposed by Obamacare. House to vote Thursday on Obamacare repeal bill Republicans -- including Vice President Mike Pence -- have spent several days attempting to secure the votes they need to pass the bill. Upton and Long flipped their votes from "no" to "yes" after meeting with Trump, moving the GOP closer to achieving its goal."( Trump) listened to what the members brought to him," Burgess said. The meeting at the Oval Office lasted a "long time," Burgess said, estimating it was "about an hour's visit." Read More The change of heart from the lawmakers came after Trump committed to backing an amendment, which would pledge $8 billion over five years to fund high-risk pools and go toward patients with pre-existing conditions." He agreed with them ( Upton and Long) that protection was good philosophical approach," Burgess said. " Eight billion over the next five years ... this is felt to be adequate protection." The House plans to vote Thursday on the GOP bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. CNN's MJ Lee, Lauren Fox, Tami Luhby and Phil Mattingly contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/M6yUMkJZoEg/index.html
Trump to sign executive order to 'vigorously promote religious liberty' Trump to sign executive order to 'vigorously promote religious liberty' By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House Producer Updated 0201 GMT (1001 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump: I will destroy Johnson amendment Trump: I will destroy Johnson amendment 00:45 Story highlights It is the policy of the Trump administration "to protect and vigorously promote religious liberty" The order will direct the IRS to exercise "maximum enforcement discretion" over the Johnson Amendment ( CNN) President Donald Trump plans to sign an executive order Thursday that could allow churches and other religious organizations to become more active politically, according to officials. The order will direct the IRS to exercise "maximum enforcement discretion" over the Johnson Amendment, which prevents churches and other tax-exempt religious organizations from endorsing or opposing political candidates. It will also provide "regulatory relief" for organizations that object on religious grounds to a provision in Obamacare that mandates employers provide certain health services, including coverage for contraception. The order will declare that it is the policy of the Trump administration "to protect and vigorously promote religious liberty," according to a senior administration official. Trump plans to sign the order and deliver remarks during an event at the White House Thursday marking the National Day of Prayer. The event will bring national religious leaders to the White House. The order stops short of offering broad exceptions for groups to deny services based on religious grounds. An earlier version of the order, which had previously leaked to The Nation, would have provided sweeping legal protections for people to claim religious exemptions, provisions that civil liberties groups claimed would allow for discrimination against LGBT Americans. Read More The order Trump plans to sign Thursday is more modest in its scope. By directing the IRS to use its discretion in enforcing the Johnson Amendment, religious organizations are likely to escape punishment for backing political candidates. Religious leaders have argued the provision stifles their rights to free speech. The 1954 measure says any tax-exempt group can lose its exemption if it is found to have endorsed or actively opposed a candidate for political office. The IRS is officially tasked with investigating suspected violators of the law, though only one organization has lost its exemption as a result of IRS action. Trump himself vowed early in his presidential tenure to get rid of the measure, though completely striking the amendment would require an act of Congress." I will get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson Amendment and allow our representatives of faith to speak freely and without fear of retribution," Trump said in February. Some religious leaders, however, object to any measure that would make it easier to inject politics into places of worship." For decades, the Johnson Amendment has prevented houses of worship from being turned into partisan political tools. A majority of clergy -- and Americans -- support the status quo and oppose political endorsements from the pulpit," Interfaith Alliance president Rabbi Jack Moline said. " President Trump's executive order reportedly aims to gut the Johnson Amendment and clear the way for the Religious Right to weaponize their churches for partisan battle."" If the effort succeeds," Moline said, "these churches would become conduits for unregulated 'dark money' in elections, with no restrictions or disclosure requirements." In a letter delivered to House and Senate leaders last month, a group of religious leaders argued against scrapping the Johnson Amendment, citing similar concerns that such a move could turn religious groups into political organizations." The charitable sector, particularly houses of worship, should not become another cog in a political machine or another loophole in campaign finance laws," the group wrote. Briefing reporters Wednesday evening, a senior Trump administration official downplayed the possibility that churches would soon act as political groups advocating for particular candidates." Nobody is suggesting that churches are allowed, or it's legal, for tax-exempt organizations to tax out ads endorsing candidates," the official said. " That's illegal now for them, as a condition of their tax-exempt status. So we're not changing what's legal, we're not changing what's illegal, just enforcement discretion." Selectively enforcing law has drawn scrutiny in past administrations, and could present another legal challenge to Trump's administration. Several of Trump's executive orders -- including an entry ban for citizens of certain Muslim-majority nations, and an order stripping federal funding from so-called "sanctuary cities" -- are on hold are courts weigh their legality. The senior administration official downplayed any fears the religious order could face a similar fate." I don't think that we expect any legal challenges," the official said. CNN's Elizabeth Landers and Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/5h_oOMKE5bE/index.html
Sen. Feinstein on Comey: ' Should he have done it? Probably not' Sen. Feinstein on Comey's disclosure: ' Should he have done it? Probably not' Saba Hamedy Updated 0153 GMT (0953 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Sen. Feinstein: Comey impacted the election Sen. Feinstein: Comey impacted the election 01:54 Story highlights During his hearing, FBI Director James Comey said the idea of impacting the election made him "mildly nauseous" Sen. Feinstein on the FBI probe into Clinton: ' I think everybody agrees that in one way or another, it impacted the election' Washington ( CNN) Sen. Dianne Feinstein said Wednesday she believes FBI Director James Comey's decision to reveal the agency was re-investigating Hillary Clinton's emails affected the outcome of the 2016 election." I think everybody agrees that in one way or another, it impacted the election," the California Democrat said on " The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer" Wednesday. " Should ( Comey) have done it? Probably not. But knowing him, it was on the spur of the moment and he just did it." The comments came hours after Comey's hearing, during which the official strongly defended his choice to send a letter to Congress on October 28, 2016 that suggested the FBI was looking into Clinton's email server again after new emails had been discovered on a computer shared by Anthony Weiner and top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. James Comey explains why he alerted Congress right before the election on Clinton's emails" It was a hard choice, I still believe in retrospect the right choice," Comey told senators at a judiciary committee hearing on oversight of his agency. " I can't consider for a second whose political fortunes will be affected." He said the idea of impacting the election made him "mildly nauseous." Read More Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said she "generally" has confidence in Comey." I think overall he is a straight shooter," she said. " He always has been with me. I think he's very -- he's not influenced by much other than his purpose and his job. And I think that's good." But in this case, she said,"something happened that I don't know about.""' Mildly nauseous' doesn't sound like he was too nauseated by it," Feinstein said. " But I think it was bad thing to do, and really for me a very disappointing thing for him to do." She said Comey alerting Congress of the probe 11 days before election was an " October surprise."" One of the things he said to us, well, one of the reasons for ... holding the Clinton press conference 11 days before the election, was there was such great interest in this," Feinstein said. " Well, let me tell you, when Russia hacks into our election systems, there's exceptional interest in that too. So that argument doesn't hold up. But he is so sure that he did the right thing and maybe I would say it wasn't the right thing if there was new information." Feinstein said Comey could have instead gotten a search warrant to look through the computer and "find there was nothing new there." Democrats -- including Clinton herself -- have pointed to Comey's probe as what cost them the White House." I was on the way to winning until a combination of Jim Comey's letter on October 28 and Russian Wiki Leaks raised doubts in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me and got scared off," the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee said Tuesday in an interview conducted by CNN's Christiane Amanpour at the Women for Women International summit in New York. Sen. Cory Booker, a New Jersey Democrat, also called Comey actions "unacceptable." I wish he would come clean and say he didn't have to do this [ Clinton announcement]," he said Wednesday on CNN's " Erin Burnett Out Front." " It's outrageous he is defending himself like this ... this is a man not taking responsibility." President Donald Trump criticized Comey on Tuesday on Twitter." FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!" he tweeted. " The phony...... Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?" FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony...— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 3, 2017 ... Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 3, 2017

http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/sikUzKhGb34/index.html Why House Republicans are convinced they have to pass a health care bill Why House Republicans are convinced they have to pass a health care bill By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 0000 GMT (0800 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. ( CNN) House Republicans' decision to schedule a Thursday vote on a bill that reforms and replaces the Affordable Care Act suggests they are now willing to roll the dice even though the final outcome is far from certain. Tonight's decision comes after the party has spent weeks tweaking the bill to attract wavering members. Combine the risk involved with the level of public sausage-making and a simple question arises: Why? After all, it's clear that threading the needle between the House Freedom Caucus on the ideological right and the Tuesday Group in the center is a perilous proposition. Republicans have already swung and missed twice. Even with the current momentum behind Michigan Rep. Fred Upton's amendment to fund state-based high-risk pools as a fix for the decision to waive the federal mandate on covering people with pre-existing conditions, it's going to be a very, very close vote -- if there is a vote at all. So, again, why? Especially since the bill may never go anywhere in the Senate or be amended beyond belief. Those two possibilities make Democrats convinced that the worst thing House Republicans can do is vote on this health care bill. ( Democrats believe a vote is the best thing for their own political fortunes.) They liken it to their own disastrous decision in 2009 to vote on a cap and trade bill that quickly died in the Senate and was subsequently used against Democratic members in swing districts to cast them as extreme liberals beholden to the national party, not their constituents. I've talked to a handful of Republican members and senior campaign staffers about just that question. While they recognize voting on a bill with an uncertain legislative future is a risk, they think the bigger risk is not passing anything at all. There are two main reasons behind that thinking: Read More1. Repealing and replacing Obamacare -- which is not exactly what they will be doing, but whatever -- was the issue Republicans built their entire message around over the last 7+ years. The promise they made to their base was that if they were voted into power, the bill would be gone. It's on the back of that message that they won control of the House in 2010 and the Senate in 2014. It played a major role in pushing Trump over the top against Hillary Clinton too. Given the centrality of health care to everything Republicans have talked about over the last seven years, to simply throw up their hands and give up is unthinkable. GOP strategists believe deeply that to walk away from health care would cause a revolt -- or at least a major enthusiasm dip -- within their base. And, with the Democratic base fired up beyond belief to send a message to Trump, the 2018 midterms could be a total disaster.2. The country is looking to Republicans to show they can actually govern. Not just protest the policies of the Obama Administration, but actually govern. At the moment -- and it is, granted, quite early -- the scorecard doesn't look very good. Tax reform is a long process that has only just begun. Building Trump's much-promised border wall will be a long and arduous process -- if it happens at all. Republican members of Congress need something tangible to take to their constituents come August recess. They need to be able to point to a major piece of legislation that they promised they would deliver and show that they made good on their end of the bargain. ( Obviously this argument gets complicated if the Senate either doesn't act on a House-passed measure or amends it heavily.) Health care, which is of critical importance to the Republican base (see above), would have that effect, they believe. That's why Republicans are pushing all their chips into the middle on this. The only other option is to go bust.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/XbHYrSVXUY8/index.html
First on CNN: Rice declines Senate request to testify on Russian hacking By Jim Sciutto and Manu Raju, CNN Updated 2302 GMT (0702 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Susan Rice denies Trump's unmasking charge (16 Videos) Susan Rice denies Trump's unmasking charge Carter Page responds to CNN report Dem: WH looks like they have something to hide Sources: Russia tried infiltrating Trump camp Sources: FBI used dossier allegations to bolster Trump- Russia investigation Sources: UK intel uncovers Trump, Russia links Report: Trump donor met Russians in Seychelles Rep. Himes: Russia investigation back on track White House faces more questions on Russia Sources: FBI investigates 'odd' computer link Michael Flynn omitted Russia income Timeline: President Trump's Russia problem Sources: FBI reimbursed dossier author Trump defends Flynn's request for immunity Manafort worked with Russian billionaire Putin: Election accustations are lies Story highlights Republicans have raised concerns that Rice may have acted improperly But GOP and Democratic lawmakers have so far found no evidence of wrongdoing, sources have said Washington ( CNN) Susan Rice, President Barack Obama's former national security adviser, on Wednesday declined Sen. Lindsey Graham's request to participate in a judiciary subcommittee hearing next week on Russian interference in the US election, CNN has learned. A letter obtained exclusively by CNN from Rice's lawyer, Kathryn Ruemmler, outlines the grounds for her decision not to appear. It was addressed to Graham, the Republican chairman of the judiciary subcommittee on crime and terrorism, which is holding the hearing, and senior Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse." Senator Whitehouse has informed us by letter that he did not agree to Chairman Graham's invitation to Ambassador Rice, a significant departure from the bipartisan invitations extended to other witnesses," Ruemmler wrote. " Under these circumstances, Ambassador Rice respectfully declines Senator Graham's invitation to testify." A source familiar with Rice's discussions told CNN that when Graham invited her, Rice believed it was a bipartisan overture and was prepared to accept. However, Whitehouse indicated to her that the invitation was made without his agreement, as he believed her presence was not relevant to the topic of the hearing, according to the source. Rice considered the invitation a "diversionary play" to distract attention from the investigation into Russian election interference, including contacts between Trump allies and Russians during the campaign, the source said. Read More Whitehouse told CNN that "with the exception of that invitation, Senator Graham and I have agreed on all witnesses that have been invited to this hearing." He continued, " I don't believe that Dr. Rice's participation is germane to the topic of this hearing, and I believe her presence would be a distraction from the critical issues at hand. I fully support her decision not to testify." On Wednesday evening, Graham expressed concern that he learned about Rice's decision from the press -- not from the former Obama adviser herself." I'm disappointed," Graham said. " I don't know why she won't come before the committee to tell us what she did or didn't do. But we'll deal with her later." Graham suggested that he wasn't prepared to subpoena her yet, but said he wants to have a hearing on the issue of "unmasking" the identities of Americans caught up in surveillance reports before he votes on reauthorizing a key section of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. And he said he wants to learn what she did to unmask identities of Americans." I want to know about unmasking," Graham said. " Apparently the number of unmasking requests tripled last year, versus 2015 ... I want to know who can unmask an American citizen's name whose caught up in surveillance, and what they can do with that information." Sally Yates, James Clapper to testify Sally Yates, James Clapper to testify 01:40 Graham first told CNN before the letter was sent that he had invited Rice to address the Senate panel to determine whether the Obama administration "tried to politicize intelligence" -- part of his broader investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 US elections. Former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper are set to testify. Republicans have raised concerns that Rice may have acted improperly while she was national security adviser by seeking to learn the identities of Trump officials discussing matters with foreign officials related to the Trump transition. Those officials were caught up in US intelligence surveillance of the foreign officials and had their identities unmasked after at first being referred to anonymously in the intelligence records. President Donald Trump at one point alleged Rice broke the law by requesting the unmasking of US individuals' identities. Trump had claimed the matter was a "massive story." But Republican and Democratic lawmakers and aides have so far found no evidence that Obama administration officials did anything unusual or illegal, multiple sources in both parties have told CNN. Despite declining the appearance, Rice's lawyer assured Graham and Whitehouse in the letter that she was "prepared to assist Congressional inquiries into Russian election interference because of the important national interests at stake, provided they are conducted in a bipartisan manner, and, as appropriate, in classified session."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/hrnVTOOP_gE/index.html
Trump's Flynn fiasco could have been avoided - CNN.com Trump's Flynn fiasco could have been avoided By Gloria Borger, CNN Chief Political Analyst Updated 1612 GMT (0012 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Sources: Yates to contradict WH about Flynn Sources: Yates to contradict WH about Flynn 02:38 Story highlights Gen. Michael Flynn's ouster as national security adviser tarnished the start of Donald Trump's presidency Trump's chaotic transition process allowed Flynn to get a top White House post without adequate vetting ( CNN) It's been 11 weeks since Gen. Michael Flynn was ousted as national security adviser. He lied to Vice President Mike Pence about his conversations with the Russians, lobbied on behalf of Turkey while an adviser to the Trump campaign, and is now seeking congressional immunity in exchange for his testimony about Russia and the election. Not a great scenario for a new administration. But it's one that could have been avoided had the new team actually done its homework about the man they nominated. Only they didn't. Consider this scenario, retold by multiple sources with knowledge: When Donald Trump's initial transition team met for the first (and last) time two days after the November election victory with its executive committee -- which included Trump family members -- the group was visited by two people who were not expected to be at the session: Gen. Michael Flynn and Gen. Keith Kellogg. Apparently invited by Jared Kushner, the men were asked by both Kushner and Ivanka Trump to talk about the positions they would want in the new administration. Kellogg wanted to be White House chief of staff, which was apparently a non-starter. And Flynn told the group there were only three positions he would accept: national security adviser, secretary of state, or secretary of defense. The trouble is, he was not on the transition team's list for any of those jobs. Read More But he was on the family's list. The rest is history: The next day, transition chairman Chris Christie was ousted, his voluminous plans scrapped, and the rest of his team was gone shortly thereafter. And Flynn became the first big Trump appointment, named national security adviser within 10 days of Trump's election -- only to be gone just over three weeks into the Trump presidency. The rise and fall of Flynn The story of Flynn's rise and fall -- from loyal Trump adviser and campaign rabble-rouser to a very short-term top job in national security -- is the story of an insular family takeover of a transition process the President himself never wanted. ( In fact, one source says that Trump wanted to close it down, thought it was bad karma, but was told that transition preparations are actually in the candidate's best interest.) According to multiple sources familiar with discussions inside the first transition team, Flynn was viewed suspiciously. He was considered a "wild card" -- someone who made officials uncomfortable. But because he had been so loyal to Trump they reluctantly put him on their list as the director of national intelligence. After the election -- and the Christie ouster -- the transition was outsourced in name to Pence, who led a largely inexperienced team, including Trump's family -- especially his daughter and son-in-law. What's more, this new transition was hobbled by inadequate vetting and preparation, falling woefully behind in nominations. And Flynn's appointment as national security adviser was an easily avoidable mistake, say initial transition officials, but apparently no one was interested in listening to advice about extreme vetting. Flynn was announced as national security adviser with the clear backing of the Trump family. But Flynn did not have something just as important: a complete, new, deeper internal vet of his associations and potential conflicts. The new transition team had prepared "public source" vetting on potential nominees -- which means anything available on the public record -- but had not gone beyond that. And the ousted transition team had specifically warned the new administration not to nominate anyone officially until more robust investigations could be complete. But it didn't happen that way. So Flynn was nominated, says one source with knowledge, "without anything deeper than a public vet." Another source familiar with the transition added that Flynn "certainly wouldn't have passed my vetting to be anything with a security clearance." The lack of homework created obvious problems. The main questions are these: Why didn't the Trump administration know about either Flynn's business or his Russian contacts? Wouldn't a fuller vetting process have sent up red flares? The explanation now from the Trump administration is that it's the Obama administration's fault. Flynn, they say, had the proper clearance because he was vetted by the Obama administration -- having served as their Defense Intelligence Agency director before he was fired from that position in 2014. Donald Trump explained it this way: " When they say we didn't vet, well Obama I guess didn't vet, because he was approved at the highest level of security by the Obama administration." And Trump spokesman Sean Spicer said there was no need to "rerun a background check" on someone who had a high position in intelligence" and "did maintain a high level clearance." He said it's done every five years, and can be updated which, he said, "occurred in this case." So case closed. More elaborate vetting? Except that intelligence officials have told CNN and others that any high-level job like national security adviser should require a separate, more extensive background check, even for those with current security clearance. And as Flynn's predecessor -- former national security adviser Susan Rice -- pointed out in an interview with Fareed Zakaria last week, those appointed to high positions normally receive "a separate and much more elaborate" check than a security clearance. " It gets into the financial information. It gets into your relationships and contacts. It gets into your behavior." Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook During the campaign, Flynn was cleared, along with Christie, to accompany then-presidential nominee Trump to a briefing with intelligence officials. (" Maybe that's the Obama vet they're talking about," speculated one source. " But that's not the vet you should get if you are going to be national security adviser.") It was held at FBI headquarters in New York. One source with knowledge of the briefing says that " Trump acquitted himself well," but that Flynn was "an abomination with an ax to grind" against the intelligence officials with whom he had formerly worked. Even Trump started having concerns about Flynn, this source says, but acknowledged his loyalty. In the end, loyalty wasn't enough. " Flynn was their responsibility," one transition source says. " If they had truly vetted him before any announcement, none of this would have happened." Clarification: The timeline of events regarding Flynn's lobbying has been updated. Powered by Livefyre Home Regions U. S. Africa Americas Asia China Europe Middle East Opinion U. S. Politics45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica State Business Markets Tech Luxury Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Sport Football Golf Tennis Motorsport Horseracing Equestrian Sailing Skiing Travel Aviation Business Traveller Destinations Features Food/ Drink Hotels Partner Hotels Fashion Design Architecture Arts Autos Luxury Health Diet + Fitness Living Well Parenting + Family Vital Signs Features Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa2 degrees All Features Video Video news Feature shows HLNTV shows TV schedule Faces of CNN Worldwide CNN VR How To Watch VR Archives More… Weather CNN Heroes CNN Profiles Leadership Pressroom Partner sitesi Report International Edition Set edition preference: U. S. International Confirm U. S. International Arabic Español© 2017  Cable  News  Network. Turner  Broadcasting  System,  Inc. All  Rights  Reserved. CNN  Sans ™ & © 2016  Cable  News  Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Advertise with us About us Newsletters Work for us Help Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/iREqO8j3i8Y/index.html
FBI's latest on Russia investigation? Comey isn't saying FBI's latest on Russia investigation? Comey isn't saying By Tom Lo Bianco, CNN Updated 2030 GMT (0430 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Comey defends decision to reveal Clinton probe (13 Videos) Comey defends decision to reveal Clinton probe Comey: Clinton, Trump probes treated the same Recap: Comey hearing in less than 3 minutes NSA chief denies British spying accusation FBI director asked about Manafort questioning What we learned from the Russia hearing Comey: No info to support wiretapping tweets Rep. Adam Schiff: Russia will meddle again Hearing held on Russia activity in US election FBI Director Comey's entire opening statement Who is James Comey? The wiretapping saga in 2 minutes Timeline of Moscow meddling allegations Story highlights The FBI is currently investigating Russian meddling into the US election Members of a Senate judiciary committee tried in vain to get information on the investigation ( CNN) FBI Director James Comey beat back questions about the continuing federal probe into Russian interference in the US elections, as senators tried to pry any bit of information out of him Wednesday. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, placed a target squarely on President Donald Trump, asking Comey during a Senate judiciary committee hearing if he was investigating the President as part of the probe. But Comey, again, said he would not answer one way or another. CNN has no reporting showing that Trump himself is a direct subject of the FBI probe. Blumenthal later asked if Comey would commit to explaining the Trump- Russia probe the same way he explained the Clinton email investigation when it closed. Comey said he would push for a public explanation, but said it was not up to him. Read More Sen. Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, asked Comey if he could explain what the FBI was investigating regarding former Trump adviser Roger Stone's contacts with Guccifer 2.0 -- an online operator determined by US intelligence to be Russian hackers. Comey said he would not say one way or another. At points, Comey's responses sounded much like the same answers he gave the House intelligence committee in March -- a string of " I won't answer that" statements. Which is the reason that House Russia investigators asked Comey to return Thursday for a closed-door briefing where, they hope, he will be able to answer some of their questions. The one thing Comey had no trouble answering? Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley asked Comey if he was the one responsible for the many leaks coming out on the Trump campaign and Russia. Comey responded, " No." RELATED: Comey cites Lynch- Clinton meeting for lost faith in Justice investigation
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/4wZpbXuHzpA/index.html
James Comey doesn't care what you think of him By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1924 GMT (0324 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Comey: ' Nauseous' over election thoughts (13 Videos) Comey: ' Nauseous' over election thoughts Comey: Clinton, Trump probes treated the same Recap: Comey hearing in less than 3 minutes NSA chief denies British spying accusation FBI director asked about Manafort questioning What we learned from the Russia hearing Comey: No info to support wiretapping tweets Rep. Adam Schiff: Russia will meddle again Hearing held on Russia activity in US election FBI Director Comey's entire opening statement Who is James Comey? The wiretapping saga in 2 minutes Timeline of Moscow meddling allegations ( CNN) Within minutes of the start of James Comey's testimony in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee today, two things became very clear:1. None of the senators were particularly happy with Comey.2. Comey really couldn't care less. James Comey explains why he alerted Congress right before the election on Clinton's emails Democrats -- led by ranking member Dianne Feinstein -- went at Comey's decision to send a letter to Congress on October 28, 2016 that signaled that the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email server had been re-opened after new emails had been discovered on a computer shared by Anthony Weiner and top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. They also bashed Comey over his decision to slam Clinton for poor judgment in his July announcement that no charges would be brought against her in the email investigation." Why didn't you just do the investigation as you would normally, with no public announcement?," asked Dianne Feinstein ( Calif.), the highest ranking Democrat on the committee. Read More Republicans went slightly easier -- though not much -- on Comey, questioning whether any evidence existed that President Trump's campaign had colluded with Russia and questioning why Comey had concluded that neither Clinton, Abedin or anyone else in the the candidate's inner circle shouldn't be charged with mishandling classified information." A cloud of doubt hangs over the FBI's objectivity," Judiciary Committee Chair Chuck Grassley ( Iowa) said, adding: " The public's faith in the FBI, in Congress, and our democratic process has been tested lately." Rough stuff. Comey: No regrets about Clinton email probe Comey: No regrets about Clinton email probe 01:04 Through it all, Comey kept his voice even and measured and a smile on his face. And, from the start of the hearing, he offered his explanation for why he sought to inform Congress of a re-opening of the Clinton investigation -- and never backed down off that message. That explanation? His investigators came to him on Oct. 27 with metadata from Weiner's computer that showed thousands of Clinton emails. They also told him they wouldn't be able to go through them all by election day. Comey went public, for fear of being seen as something short of wholly transparent if and when Clinton was elected. " It was a hard choice, I still believe in retrospect the right choice," Comey said. " I can't consider for a second whose political fortunes will be affected." Time and again, he was pressed by Democratic Senators on those decisions. And time and again he calmly explained that he saw himself between a rock and a hard place -- and chose the best available option, even if it wasn't a particularly attractive one. Comey: Clinton, Trump probes treated the same Comey: Clinton, Trump probes treated the same 00:54 In short, Comey was entirely content to play the villain that both sides portrayed him to be. ( A January Quinnipiac poll showed that just 23% of respondents approved of the job Comey is doing while 49% disapproved.) For Democrats, that's as a government official who badly overstepped his duties when he offered a detailed report on Clinton's email server activities and then re-opened the investigation just days before the election. For Republicans, it's as a too-timid law man -- unwilling to upset the apple cart either by indicting Clinton or dismissing the Russian collusion story out of hand. Comey: Classified Clinton emails forwarded to Anthony Weiner Comey appears entirely unconcerned by his lack of popularity, seemingly holding it as a point of pride. Much of that attitude is born of the fact that he is in the middle of a 10-year term in the job. ( Comey was confirmed on a 93-1 vote back in 2013.) While he can be removed at the will of the president, Comey seems to worry very little about that that possibility. My guess is that Comey sees the dislike from both sides as evidence he is doing his job right. This pointed exchange with Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono, a Democrat, says it all: Hirono: But we know that you were very concerned about what might happened if it came to light that you had possibly gone easy on Mrs. Clinton and therefore that you were concerned about the political ramifications of your decisions. Comey: I was not. Hirono: So you did not consider that your statements about a person who was running for president would not have a negative effect on her? Comey: I tried very hard not to consider what effect it might have politically. I tried very hard to credibly complete an investigation that had gotten extraordinary public attention and my judgment, and people can disagree about this, was that offering as much transparency as possible about what we did, what we found, and what we think of it, was the best way to credibly complete the investigation. I wasn't thinking about what effect it might have on a political campaign. Hirono: I find that very hard, hard to believe that you did not contemplate that there would be political ramifications to your comments. Democrats cheered Hirono. Comey just smiled and moved on.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/1ZUzXDeSFQ8/index.html
The moment Comey lost faith in DOJ's Clinton probe Comey cites Lynch- Clinton meeting for lost faith in Justice investigation By Zachary Cohen, CNN Updated 1937 GMT (0337 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Lynch on Bill Clinton meeting: ' He's a talker' Lynch on Bill Clinton meeting: ' He's a talker' 03:58 Story highlights FBI Director James Comey testified Wednesday before a Senate committee Loretta Lynch and Bill Clinton met on the tarmac last June Washington ( CNN) Last year's now-infamous airport tarmac meeting between then- Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton was a crucial moment for FBI Director James Comey, he said Wednesday, marking the moment he decided that the Department of Justice was not capable of an independent investigation into Hillary Clinton." A number of things had gone on which I can't talk about yet, that made me worry that the department leadership could not credibly complete the investigation and decline prosecution without grievous damage to the American people's confidence in the justice system," Comey said, testifying before the Senate judiciary committee." And then the capper was -- and I'm not picking on the attorney general, Loretta Lynch, who I like very much -- but her meeting with President Clinton on that airplane was the capper for me, and I then said, you know what, the department cannot, by itself, credibly end this," he added. Comey indicated that he was already moving towards a decision to announce the investigation's conclusion on his own because he believed top DOJ officials couldn't do it and be viewed as impartial. For Comey, Lynch's meeting with Bill Clinton was the last straw. Read More Lynch and Bill Clinton met privately in Phoenix in June 2016 after the two realized they were on the same tarmac, an aide to the former president told CNN at the time. The criticism of the meeting prompted Lynch to say that she would accept the determinations and findings of the FBI and career prosecutors who were investigating the Democratic presidential candidate over her use of a private email server while secretary of state. RELATED: James Comey explains why he alerted Congress right before the election on Clinton's emails A spokesman for President Bill Clinton did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Comey has faced fierce criticism -- including during Wednesday's hearing -- for his alerting Congress just before the election of the FBI search of Anthony Weiner's computer because it might have relevant information to the Clinton investigation. The emails found on the computer did not change the determination of the FBI's probe, and Clinton went on to lose the election to Donald Trump. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/0UZA_goj69w/index.html
Pelosi: Don't kick out anti-abortion Dems from party Pelosi: Don't kick out anti-abortion Dems from party By Sophie Tatum, CNN Updated 0126 GMT (0926 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 27: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- CA) talks to reporters during her weekly news conference at the U. S. Capitol Visitors Center April 27, 2017 in Washington, DC. Pelosi gave President Donald Trump a letter grade for his performance as he approaches his 100th day in office. ( Photo by Chip Somodevilla/ Getty Images) Story highlights Pelosi's comments are at odds with recent remarks by Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez" This is the Democratic Party. This is not a rubber-stamp party," Pelosi said Washington ( CNN) House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said she believes the Democratic Party should not use abortion as a deciding factor on whether to endorse candidates for office." This is the Democratic Party. This is not a rubber-stamp party," Pelosi said in an interview with The Washington Post published Tuesday. Pelosi is the highest-ranking Democrat in the House, and her comments are at odds with recent remarks by Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez, who recently called Democratic support for abortion "not negotiable." Speaking to the Post, Pelosi referred to her background growing up in a "devout Catholic family" that was also "staunchly Democratic." " Most of those people -- my family, extended family -- are not pro-choice. You think I'm kicking them out of the Democratic Party?" Pelosi told The Washington Post. Read More And although the political debate over support for abortion has been traditionally settled down party lines, the Democratic Party's divide was revealed by a somewhat unsuspecting source -- the Omaha, Nebraska, mayoral race. Democratic candidate Heath Mello initially received support from Perez and Sen. Bernie Sanders. However, the endorsement brought intense criticism from fellow Democrats and women's groups, including pro-abortion rights organization NARAL Pro- Choice, which criticized Mello's record on the subject during his time in the state legislature. Mello has since clarified his stance on abortion as something he thinks should be a decision made between a woman and her partner, according to The Nation. Sanders stood by his endorsement of Mello in an interview on CBS's " Face the Nation" on April 23, calling the support necessary "if we're going to become a 50-state party." Sen. Tammy Duckworth, D- Illinois, echoed Pelosi's comments while speaking to reporters Wednesday evening at an event for Emily's List -- a group that works to elect Democratic, pro-abortion women in various levels of government. When asked if there is room for anti-abortion candidates in the Democratic Party, Duckworth replied: " I think there is, but I think they would have to be very nuanced in how they talk about these issues."" We have a full range of folks, but at the end of the day, it's about respecting each individual's rights, and that means you have to respect women's rights," Duckworth said. Perez also issued a statement advising Democratic support for abortion. " I fundamentally disagree with Heath Mello's personal beliefs about women's reproductive health. It is a promising step that Mello now shares the Democratic Party's position on women's fundamental rights. Every candidate who runs as a Democrat should do the same, because every woman should be able to make her own health choices. Period," Perez said in the statement. President Donald Trump's administration has been stacked with abortion critics, including Vice President Mike Pence, and he nominated Justice Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, a win for anti-abortion conservatives. Trump has also been hailed by anti-abortion advocates for his actions as president, including the reversal of the so-called Mexico City Policy, which removed funding to non-governmental organizations that perform or promote abortions, and cuts to funding for the United Nations Population Fund, a program for women and girls, over abortion." You know what? That's why Donald Trump is president of the United States -- the evangelicals and the Catholics, anti-marriage equality, anti-choice. That's how he got to be president," Pelosi said to The Washington Post.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/KG3tZYPjO5c/index.html
Obamas back on the South Side for Presidential Center event Obamas donating $2 million to South Side summer jobs program By Betsy Klein, CNN Updated 2002 GMT (0402 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights The Obamas are back in Chicago They participate in a community event on Wednesday ( CNN) Former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama announced a new financial commitment to the South Side of Chicago Tuesday, the eventual home of Obama's presidential library." Michelle and I will personally donate $2 million to our summer jobs programs here in the community so that right away people can get to work and we can start providing opportunity for them," Obama said, noting that the center itself will not open for four more years." We can't afford to wait four years to start working together, and so what Michelle and I want to do is start now," Obama said, citing the issue of violence in Chicago. The Obamas greet the Trumps at White House The Obamas greet the Trumps at White House 01:05 The former first couple joined Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, once Obama's chief of staff, and community leaders for a community event, which included a casual roundtable discussion on the Obama Presidential Center. The center will be built in Chicago's Jackson Park, and Obama estimated that the center itself will create 200-300 jobs, adding that studies show it will ultimately generate "1,400-1,500 (jobs) in the construction phase and another 2,000 in the overall economic development of the area." Obama showed off the conceptual designs for the center on Wednesday. The museum will be shaped like a lantern, and the center will serve as both a presidential library as well as the headquarters of the Obama Foundation. Read More" What we wanted was something that was alive and that was a hub for activity for the community and for the city and for the country," he said. Aspects of the center's design will provide space to take advantage of Obama's famous friends, including "a studio where I can invite Spike Lee or Stephen Spielberg to come and do workshops on how to make films around the stories that young activists are working on," as well as "a music recording studio where I can invite Chance (the Rapper) or Bruce Springsteen, depending on your taste, to come here and talk about how you can record music that has social commentary and meaning." Obamas prepare to exit the White House Obamas prepare to exit the White House 05:57 That's not to say the museum won't also be a destination in its own right." Let's face it, y'all wanna see Michelle's dresses and some of the campaign posters and maybe there will be some artifacts from the White House and the presidency. Those are all interesting things to pull people in and give them a sense of what this has been all about," he said. Obama also grew nostalgic talking about the South Side, saying: " The best things that have happened to me in my life happened in this community."" The closest friends that I have made, the start of my life in public service, the values that I learned here in Chicago and we've now passed on to our children, I owe it all to this community. Although we had a formal bidding process to determine where the presidential library was going to be, the fact of the matter was, it had to be right here on the South Side of Chicago," he said. Ahead of the event, Michelle Obama tweeted what some perceive as a subtle dig at the Trump administration." Excited by the potential of the Obama Pres. Center. Barack & I will continue to champion the issues close to our hearts, including girls ed," she wrote Wednesday morning. Excited by the potential of the Obama Pres. Center. Barack & I will continue to champion the issues close to our hearts, including girls ed. Michelle Obama (@ Michelle Obama) May 3, 2017 A Trump administration memo obtained by CNN earlier this week calls for the ending of " Let Girls Learn," one of her signature girls' education initiatives. Hours after CNN reported on the internal document advising administration employees that the education initiative would not be maintained, the White House said the program had not changed. The Obamas have maintained a relatively low profile since departing the White House. They are living nearby in Washington's Kalorama neighborhood as their younger daughter, Sasha, finishes high school. Following a late January vacation to Palm Springs and then a trip to the Caribbean with billionaire businessman Richard Branson, they have been spotted occasionally around town, including one weekend visit to National Gallery of Art, where they received a round of applause. Michelle Obama has been seen at Soul Cycle classes and restaurants around town, and the former president has made multiple trips to New York City. Last month, they vacationed in the South Pacific, where paparazzi snapped photos of the former president taking a photo of his wife. They were aboard a yacht during a getaway with friends Bruce Springsteen, Oprah Winfrey and Tom Hanks. Former US President Obama take a holiday snap of his wife Michelle, as she poses on the top deck of the 138 meter Rising Sun yacht where the couple and friends spent the morning off the Island of Moorea, in the South Pacific, part of French Polynesia on April 14, 2017." Is this what's going on with social media that Oprah and I cannot go on a billionaire's boat to Tahiti with a former President of the United States and not keep it secret for God sakes?" Tom Hanks joked in a recent appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert. CNN's Samantha Reyes and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/06AlW3hnhP4/index.html
19 things Ivanka Trump wants you to know 19 things Ivanka Trump wants you to know, per her new book By Betsy Klein, CNN Updated 0046 GMT (0846 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Ivanka Trump's new book came out Tuesday She reveals some new personal anecdotes and tidbits Washington ( CNN) Ivanka Trump's 212-page book aimed at helping millennial working women define success in their careers and lives, titled " Women Who Work," came out Tuesday. Written with the extensive use of a 19-page works cited, and inspirational quotes and stories from more than 130 people, including Oprah Winfrey, Colin Powell, Mindy Kaling, Maya Angelou, Sheryl Sandberg and Walt Disney, the tone is very on-brand for Trump. The book also includes motivational quotes written in funky calligraphy on pale pink paper (paging Elle Woods -- no, they aren't scented) at the beginning of each chapter. The first daughter wrote her guide before the November 2016 election, updating with a brief preface during the presidential transition time. " Women Who Work" presents Trump, who now serves her father's administration as a top adviser, as a model working woman. Read More Here are some anecdotes and tidbits the image-conscious Trump offers up: Her children call their grandmother " Glamma." The glamorous Ivana Trump, President Donald Trump's first wife and mother to Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric, is described by her daughter as "a fashion icon, the consummate hostess and a lifelong entrepreneur." She's a runner. "( I'm) striving to improve as a runner," writes Trump, who has been spotted jogging in Washington's Rock Creek Park. She's a hard worker. " Anyone who knows me knows that I will outwork anyone," she says. Husband Jared Kushner is a moderating force. " He's incredibly pragmatic, always cool in the face of adversity; he finds it unproductive to focus on the problem (versus the solution) or to react emotionally," she writes of Kushner. " He's my greatest teacher in this regard, the calm, soothing voice of reason that guides me to focus on what matters most, even in moments of crisis or chaos, where I naturally tend to be a bit more emotional." She likes peonies. Trump encourages working women to get perspective on their lives and careers by looking from a point far in the future. Her imagined scenario is a milestone birthday. " I'm standing at the end of a long table, adorned with beautiful bouquets of blush-colored peonies, and seated on both sides are the people who've mattered most to me in my life." She majored in real estate. Trump attended Georgetown University and transferred to the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, where she majored in real estate and also studied finance and art history. Arabella, 5, to join the family business? Trump insists it's up to her, but she worked on the Trump International DC Hotel with her daughter's future in mind. " I can envision Arabella overseeing this hotel someday (if she so chooses!), and I shared that with the selection committee," she says. She's a reader. " I consume a tremendous amount of information: books, newspapers, trade publications, magazines," she lists. " TED Talks and podcasts are another way I diversify my own information bias and expose myself to bite-sized, snackable bits of information on topics." 2016 -- a "real eye-opener!" Trump -- who attended private school and enjoyed a NYC-centric adult life, discussed the importance of talking to people outside her bubble, citing her father's presidential campaign. " Having talked to people on both sides of the political aisle during my father's campaign for the presidency, I learned firsthand the importance of gathering and considering disparate viewpoints." She and Jared are matchmakers. Trump discusses the importance of collecting contacts -- " My favorite personal example of this is how Jared and I have introduced seven couples who've gotten married. Seven! ( We joke that our hidden talent is matchmaking, but that we don't give guarantees. So far, so good, no divorces!)" She makes a lot of lists. Trump makes the time to write resolutions on New Year's Day. " I sit down alone with a notebook and headphones to brainstorm a long list of high-level objectives for each of the different businesses that I oversee," she writes. She also makes lists of personal and family resolutions. And she keeps daily and long-term to-do lists in a Moleskine notebook year-round. ( Also, she says that her digital calendar is "color-coded by business and topic.") Jared likes to walk. " Jared logs miles every Sunday by taking calls on his cell while pacing in circles in the living room or walking outdoors," she writes, citing research that walking boosts creativity. She gardens. Trump bonds with her children while gardening at their New Jersey country home on weekends. " Berries are a big hit: strawberries and blueberries; we even have a peach tree and a fig bush." She practices Transcendental Meditation. Trump has meditated for "several years," she says, " And I couldn't do half of what I do in a day without it." She says 20 minutes is ideal for clearing the head, but five minutes is "better than nothing!" She used to guard her children on social media. Trump frequently posts images of her three children, 1, 3, and 5, on Instagram, but it wasn't always that way. " I didn't share a single picture of Arabella publicly until after her first birthday," adding that positive feedback on the behind-the-scenes images of her life encouraged her to post more frequently. She gives her kids 'spa baths.' Trump talks about the importance of spending individual time with each of her children. " I've never really loved bath time," she writes, but, " I try to make it special for the kids. I like to give them 'spa baths,' where I run the shower for steam, play rainforest music on Spotify, lower the lights, and let them add bubble bath to the water. They get a kick out of it and it makes it more fun for us all." She likes Bravo's ' Real Housewives.' Trump acknowledges that " Sometimes I like turning on ' Real Housewives' and sitting in front of the TV eating a giant bowl of pasta with a glass of wine, but if I'm honest with myself, it's kind of counterproductive," she writes, adding that those times are good for meditation or exercise. She gets real about breastfeeding. " One of the hardest things about returning to work is trying to continue breastfeeding and watching your milk supply plummet," she says, which "made me feel like an awful parent." She said she's cut herself some slack since her first child. Her mother-in-law brings the snacks. Trump's mother-in-law, Jared Kushner's mom, Seryl, kept employees at her eponymous apparel and accessories brand well-fed. " I stock the fridge with healthy snacks (thanks to my awesome mother-in-law, who does grocery runs for us!)," Trump writes. She has since taken a formal leave of absence from Ivanka Trump. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/jg4YYa5dVko/index.html
White House responds to Kimmel's health care monologue White House responds to Jimmy Kimmel's health care monologue Kevin Liptak and Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 2155 GMT (0555 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health (16 Videos) Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Republicans divided over Obamacare replacement Chaffetz: Invest in healthcare over i Phone Paul: Conservatives want full Obamacare repeal Trump, GOP lawmakers talk replacing Obamacare Teacher's town hall question goes viral Woman who confronted Cotton: Anger is honest Will new health plan keep Medicaid expansion? Rand Paul on fixing Obamacare (full interview) Crowd erupts as congressman avoids question Kasich vows to defend Medicaid from GOP cuts Man to GOP rep: Obamacare saved my daughter Man at town hall: Rip Obamacare to shreds Cruz, Sanders debate Obamacare in 90 seconds Fate of Obamacare faces legislative realities Sanders, Cruz clash on future of Obamacare Story highlights During Kimmel's emotional monologue, the host opened up about his son's heart defect A handful of Democrats -- including president Barack Obama -- praised Kimmel Washington ( CNN) The White House has joined the list of politicians weighing in on Jimmy Kimmel's emotional health care monologue. The late night host on Monday choked up while talking about his son's heart surgery, calling on viewers to hold politicians accountable for health care issues. Jimmy Kimmel tearfully reveals son's health crisis White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer on Wednesday said President Donald Trump shares the same concerns about health care as Kimmel." We share that concern for the Kimmels' child, as well as any child that needs care," Spicer told reporters. " That's frankly why the president fought so hard like he did this morning to improve the bill to sure there was an extra layer of protection for anybody with a pre-existing condition no matter their stage in life." The comments come as Republican leaders continue to push to repeal and replace Obamacare -- also known as the Affordable Health Care Act. Obama on Kimmel's emotional health care monologue: ' Well said' Read More" That's why we're fighting so hard for this," Spicer said of the GOP party's efforts to find a replacement. A handful of Democratic leaders -- including former President Barack Obama and former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton -- took to Twitter earlier this week to share Kimmel's speech." Well said, Jimmy," Obama wrote on Twitter Tuesday afternoon. " That's exactly why we fought so hard for the ( Affordable Care Act), and why we need to protect it for kids like Billy. And congratulations!" Well said, Jimmy. That's exactly why we fought so hard for the ACA, and why we need to protect it for kids like Billy. And congratulations! Barack Obama (@ Barack Obama) May 2, 2017 Meanwhile, some conservatives -- including politicians and columnists -- have criticized the late night host, accusing him of misconstruing the broader health care debate. " Sorry Jimmy Kimmel: your sad story doesn't obligate me or anybody else to pay for somebody else's health care," former Illinois Rep. Joe Walsh tweeted Wednesday. " Got no problem with @jimmykimmel tearing up & getting political. Got a big problem with: ' We need gov-run healthcare cuz of my sad story.'" Sorry Jimmy Kimmel: your sad story doesn't obligate me or anybody else to pay for somebody else's health care.— Joe Walsh (@ Walsh Freedom) May 2, 2017 Got no problem with @jimmykimmel tearing up & getting political. Got a big problem with: " We need gov-run healthcare cuz of my sad story."— Joe Walsh (@ Walsh Freedom) May 2, 2017 Others, like Townhall columnist Michelle Malkin, believe Kimmel's monologue is factually incorrect. " Kimmel implies that opposition to Obamacare-style insurance mandates is both un- American and indecent," Malkin wrote. " Had he been less hysterical, he would have acknowledged that different health care systems have pros and cons -- and decent Americans can have legitimate differences of opinion on such matters." Daily Beast conservative columnist Matt Lewis said he "understands where Jimmy Kimmel is coming from" but that the monologue was "a little cheap."" The passion, I think, is sincere. I don't think that this is the right move for him to do to politicize this," Lewis said Tuesday on " Anderson Cooper 360." Washington Times columnist Charles Hurt echoed the frustration over Kimmel politicizing his personal life." I mean, really, Jimmy, does your newborn child not mean more to you than petty politics?" Hurt wrote. " How do you look at the miracle of your child and think — partisan politics?" Spicer stressed that the most important part of Kimmel's monologue was the end, during which he emphasized that health care shouldn't be a partisan issue." He ( Kimmel) said that we need to have these things that are not Republican or Democrat, they are American policies," Spicer said. " I think that's what the President is fighting for right now. To make sure we have a health care system that doesn't matter where you live or your background, that it takes care of people. We're making sure right now -- we've talked about this endlessly. We have a health care system not doing what it's supposed to." Vice President Mike Pence was on Capitol Hill Wednesday to meet with members of Congress about the new bill. CNN's Eugene Scott contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/3vIxhuT8ci4/index.html
This is the best news Donald Trump has had in a while This is the best news Donald Trump has had in a while By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 2043 GMT (0443 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. The Rust Belt voted Trump. Now it wants jobs. (16 Videos) The Rust Belt voted Trump. Now it wants jobs. Trump: Don't worry, we'll build the wall How does US President Trump describe himself? Trump slams Warren during NRA speech Trump slams 'first 100 days' after embracing it Donald Trump on tax reform Trump's common speech habits as US President Trump meets with freed aid worker Mark Cuban questions Trump's competence Clinton slams Trump on LGBT rights Trump recognizes player who isn't there Trump in 2016: ' I don't have time' for golf Trump's approval rating plunges to new low Trump signs health care bill for veterans Trump congratulates military in Syria attack Tapper: Who can call out Trump on mistakes? ( CNN) Polls, once Donald Trump's favorite thing in the world, have largely turned against him in the 104 days he has been president. Everywhere he looks, bad numbers stare back at him: He's the least popular president at this stage of a term in office and a majority of people don't believe him to be honest. But, there's one number that has to warm Trump's heart -- and give some level of reassurance to Republicans jittery that Trump could bring the whole political world down on them in the 2018 midterm elections. This chart -- courtesy of Republican pollster Bill Mc Inturff and based off of data from the NBC- Wall Street Journal poll -- tells the story: For the first time since 2003, more people say they are satisfied with the state of the economy than say they are dissatisfied -- and by a relatively wide 13-point margin. That's a big deal. Read More At the heart of the many (many) promises Trump made on the campaign trail was the one to " Make America Great Again." While that's a decidedly amorphous pledge, most people translate that slogan to mean: Make my life better again. And, again, for the majority of people, things get better when they have more money in their pocket, when they can buy the things they want and when they feel that the national economy is humming. Much of that is a perception rather than a series of cold hard facts. And it turns into a self-fulfilling prophecy. If people feel like the economy is stronger, they have a tendency to go spend money, which, in turn, helps the economy strengthen. President Obama repeatedly struggled with the fact that while most economic indicators suggested the economy was improving -- particularly in his second term -- large numbers of people still felt squeezed. Insisting that things were going better while lots of people just didn't feel that way was a total political loser. CNN/ ORC Poll: At 100 days, Trump approval rating shows no sign of growth If Trump can convince people that his election and his policies, which, to this point, are largely in undoing Obama-era regulations, are why the economy is stabilizing and even strengthening, he will be in better shape politically than he has any business being given the massive struggles of his first 100 days. Trump's not there yet. The April NBC- WSJ poll showed 44% approved of his handling of the economy and 46% disapproved -- not exactly a world-beating number. But, "working to improve the economy" was one of the two most mentioned positive developments people cited when asked what they liked about Trump's first 100 days, a finding he can certainly build on. James Carville's famous 1992 campaign mantra -- " It's the economy, stupid" -- is as true today as it was 25 years ago. If Trump gets the economy right -- and get credit for doing so -- he will be in good shape as he moves into a 2020 reelection bid. That's still a giant "if" but the early returns have to be promising for an administration desperate for some good news.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/FP5qIbh7Xf4/index.html
Trump 'not happy' over Dems' victory lap on budget bill Trump 'not happy' over Dems' victory lap on budget bill By Jeremy Diamond, CNN Updated 2147 GMT (0547 HKT) May 2, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. WH defends Trump's call for shutdown WH defends Trump's call for shutdown 01:07 Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump and his top advisers' frustrations with Democrats' victory lap over the budget negotiations spilled over into the White House briefing room Tuesday as two Cabinet-level officials took to the podium. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney made the White House's most forceful case yet that the bipartisan budget deal amounted to a major win for the White House and a loss for Democrats. One senior administration official said Trump was "not happy" as he watched Democrats claim victory in the budget negotiations, and a second senior administration official said Trump was baffled that Democrats felt they could claim victory. Congressional negotiators reach deal on government funding through September" Democrats misrepresented reality," claimed one senior administration official. That prompted the White House to send Kelly and Mulvaney out to push back on Democrats' messaging. Read More The two leaned on the fact that the budget deal will deliver a multi-billion dollar boost to the Pentagon and border security, which they said would be used to rebuild existing fencing into a steel wall on parts of the border. Democrats, though, had made that case that the deal amounted to a victory for their priorities. The budget deal will not provide any money for Trump's promised border wall with Mexico or deliver the funding cuts to sanctuary cities that Trump had threatened. There are also no cuts to funding for Planned Parenthood or the $18 billion in cuts to nondefense spending that Trump had requested in his budget proposal. Instead, funding for the National Institute of Health is increased by $2 billion, despite Trump's budget plan calling for cuts to the program, and the bill will also deliver money for clean energy and science funding. As Democrats' claimed victory, Trump tweeted Tuesday morning to express his frustrations, claiming he might be willing to allow the government to shutdown during the next round of budget negotiations in September. The reason for the plan negotiated between the Republicans and Democrats is that we need 60 votes in the Senate which are not there! We....— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 2, 2017 either elect more Republican Senators in 2018 or change the rules now to 51%. Our country needs a good "shutdown" in September to fix mess!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 2, 2017 " I think the President is frustrated with the fact that he negotiated in good faith with the Democrats and they went out to try and spike the football and make him look bad," Mulvaney said, explaining Trump's tweet. " I think what you heard this morning was his sense of frustration over how he's getting mistreated by the Democrats on this bipartisan piece of legislation."" They're walking around trying to make it look like they pulled one over fast on the President. I just won't stand for it, because it's not true," he said. Mulvaney ticked off what he claimed were White House wins in the budget deal -- from reinstating a school choice program in Washington to funding for border security. Kelly, meanwhile, condemned Democrats for being pleased with their blocking of border wall funding." They're rejoicing in the fact that that wall will be slower to be built and consequently our southwest border under less control than it could be," Kelly said. The two senior administration officials who spoke to CNN on Tuesday said Trump and Kelly had planned to address Democratic claims head on at the signing of the omnibus bill -- particularly with regard to the border wall -- but some of Trump's senior advisers outside the communications shop pushed for Mulvaney and Kelly to make the case Tuesday instead. The White House's boiling frustrations with Democrats' claims was apparent in the last 24 hours. Mulvaney rounded up reporters in the briefing room on short notice late Monday afternoon and then again during a brief phone call with reporters Tuesday morning. After Trump lodged some of his complaints on Twitter and in the Rose Garden late Tuesday morning, Mulvaney and Kelly were dispatched to the briefing room in lieu of White House press secretary Sean Spicer. CNN's Manu Raju and Ted Barrett contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/nj-qGbIdY7s/index.html
Steve Bannon's White House whiteboard revealed Steve Bannon's White House whiteboard revealed By Z. Byron Wolf, CNN Updated 1857 GMT (0257 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Washington ( CNN) Here it is: our first visual glimpse at the hive mind where Trump's chief strategist, Steven Bannon, is plotting the "deconstruction" of the administrative state. We've heard descriptions of Bannon's office before. Here's how CNN's Maeve Reston, pulling reporting from the network's White House reporters like Jeff Zeleny, described the room in a recent piece for CNN's new online magazine, " State." When he moved into the White House, Trump's chief strategist removed the floor-to-ceiling bookshelves and sofa from his office and positioned his desk in the corner to make room for giant whiteboards that are lined up in four columns beneath the campaign theme: Make. America. Great. Again. In the final hours of the first 100 days, the promises kept were marked with a red X, including abandoning a massive Pacific trade deal. The column without a single red X: Legislative accomplishments. Now, thanks to some innocently tweeted photographs from Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, the Orthodox rabbi, author and TV personality, we can see the priorities that form Bannon's to-do list. Read More With Steve Bannon and Debbie at the White House on # Israel Independence Day 2017. Thank u Steve for your love of Israel Rabbi Shmuley (@ Rabbi Shmuley) May 2, 2017 Shmuley was making the rounds in Washington for Israel Independence Day this week and innocently posted photos of himself with notable Republicans. Here's another look: With @ Steve Bannon in the White House on #israelindependenceday. Steve is a great, stalwart friend of the Jewish State Rabbi Shmuley (@ Rabbi Shmuley) May 2, 2017 And a close-up: There's been an effort on social media to decipher the visible portions of the whiteboards (there are others in the office not visible in Shmuley's photos). The ones we can see list columns for " Pledges on Obamacare," Pledges on Tax Reform," " Pledges on Infrastructure" and " Pledges on Immigration." A check mark is thought to mean pledge fulfilled. The most-noticed pledge is the one that reads: Build the border wall and eventually make Mexico... So obviously, the administration still has designs on somehow making Mexico pay for the border wall it wants to build even as it sets about trying (in vain so far) to get Congress to pay for it first. There are check marks next to these items: Suspend the Syrian refugee program( That suspension, issued as part of an executive action, has been stymied by the courts, however) End "catch-and-release"( Yep, the Department of Justice is hard at work stepping up deportations and prosecutions) Hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents and Triple the number of Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents( That's in the works, but has encountered some hurdles, as CNNMoney has reported) Restore the Secure Communities program Achieved as part of an initial raft of executive orders, this is aimed at making local law enforcement share biometric data with the feds. Other bullets under immigration may have check marks too, but they're not visible. Some of the bullets are targeted at legislation, like the tax reform and Obamacare sections, neither of which has any check marks. Others are targeted at specific bills, like the Davis- Oliver bill, which would give local law enforcement more responsibility to detain the undocumented. There's mention of " Kate's Law," which would send foreigners who re-enter the country illegally after being deported, to jail for at least five years. There's also mention, mostly obscured, of the Iran nuclear deal and moving the Israeli embassy to Jerusalem. Under what must be " Pledges on Trade," it mentions withdrawing from something, negotiating something else and renegotiating a third thing. In short, Bannon's whiteboard doesn't include anything the President and the White House haven't talked about publicly. But it is fascinating to see it scrawled out so carefully in his West Wing office. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/1_xyq5-ayx4/index.html
Abbas pitching himself to Trump as 'strategic partner' for peace By Elise Labott, CNN Updated 1010 GMT (1810 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump: I can live with 2 or 1-state solution Trump: I can live with 2 or 1-state solution 02:28 Story highlights Trump has spoken repeatedly about wanting to broker the "ultimate deal" Trump is convening his top foreign policy advisers for the Abbas visit Washington ( CNN) Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas arrives at the White House Wednesday with one sales objective in mind: to present himself and his government as a "strategic partner" for peace with the United States. So explained his new representative to the US, close aide Husam Zumlot, ahead of the first face-to-face meeting between his boss and President Donald Trump." President Abbas is coming to give peace a well-deserved chance and fully embrace this historic opportunity for another chance for peace presented by President Trump," Zumlot told CNN. " We are focused on seizing this moment and giving this all that we have." Trump has spoken repeatedly about wanting to broker the "ultimate deal" between Israelis and Palestinians since taking office, inviting Abbas to the White House during a March phone call focused on ways to restart the peace process. In an interview with Reuters last week, Trump said: " I want to see peace with Israel and the Palestinians. There is no reason why there's not peace between Israel and the Palestinians -- none whatsoever." Read More Trump has already dispatched his Middle East envoy, Jason Greenblatt, to the region, where he met with Abbas and members of Palestinian civil society in Ramallah in addition to a variety of Israeli leaders and groups. The President hosted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House in February. Trump is convening his top foreign policy advisers for the Abbas visit. Vice President Mike Pence, National Security Adviser H. R. Mc Master and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson are all expected to join the talks, along with Greenblatt, Trump son-in-law and aide Jared Kushner, chief of staff Reince Priebus and chief strategist Steve Bannon, US officials said. One-state solution explained One-state solution explained 00:52 Zumlot noted that the Palestinians were prepared to make the case to Trump -- seen as very sympathetic to the Israeli perspective, as are many of his advisers -- that they are taking steps toward peace. Zumlot said Abbas would detail how his government has sought to improve security cooperation with Israel and build up its institutions. At the same time he would explain Palestinian "aspirations, hopes and accumulated experiences." But Aaron David Miller, a Mideast peace envoy to four US presidents now at the Woodrow Wilson International Center, said Abbas has a steep challenge in trying to turn Trump into a partner." Can he educate the President about the Palestinian story while persuading him that they are part of the solution, not the entire problem?," asked Miller. US officials said Trump is expected to press Abbas to crack down on incitement by Palestinians -- be it government officials or civil leaders -- to engage in violence against Israel. Acknowledging the need for improvement, Zumlot said that the government is looking for ways to address it." We will never love occupation," he said, referring to Israeli control of lands Palestinians claim. " But we do have the task of separating the occupation and not confusing that with the Israeli people. Our issue is not with them. We have to make a distinction and we are trying our best to find ways to deal with the concerns." Abbas can also expect the US to raise the Palestinian Authority's compensation of Palestinians whose family members were killed while engaging in terrorist attacks against Israelis. Trump ties to Israeli settlements Trump ties to Israeli settlements 02:14 Zumlot stressed the practice is not to "reward martyrs," but rather to direct the family away from violence." If the breadwinner of the family is gone, we can either help them look for a different future or we are just send them to Daesh," he said, using the Arabic name for ISIS. Abbas' visit comes as Trump is expected to visit Israel later this month and meet with both Abbas and Netanyahu. Zumlot said no matter how well Abbas' visit this week goes, an announcement by Trump on the future of moving the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem could destroy the momentum created by any of his new initiatives. Jerusalem, which both sides consider their capital, has traditionally been a "final status issue" to be decided in a peace deal. The issue is just one of many that have caused consternation for Palestinians and their allies. Trump pledged to move the embassy during his campaign, a statement that was enthusiastically welcomed by Israel supporters. Following his election, Trump appointed David Friedman, a hardline supporter of Israeli settlements, as his ambassador to Israel. And he seemed to abandon a decades-long US commitment to a two-state solution to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict in which the Palestinians would have their own state alongside Israel. The Israeli- Palestinian conflict: What you need to know He has since stalled on relocating the embassy. But just Tuesday night Vice President Mike Pence said at an Israeli Independence Day celebration at the White House that the US was giving "serious consideration" to the move. Still, Zumlot is encouraged by Trump's business background, hoping that will translate into a sense of fairness." An experienced dealmaker knows the deal only happens and can be sustained if it's a win-win for both sides," he said. " I think President Trump understands this." CNN's Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/h4y6JxuXMVM/index.html
Internal White House debate on Paris climate accord caught up in legal issues Internal WH debate on Paris climate accord caught up in legal issues By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House Producer Updated 1419 GMT (2219 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump Admin guts Obama-era climate regulations Trump Admin guts Obama-era climate regulations 03:15 Story highlights The debate over whether to withdraw from the Paris agreement has divided Trump's advisers The complex nature of the agreement has surprised some advisers inside the administration Washington ( CNN) Legal issues are now the sticking point in Trump administration discussions over whether to withdraw from the Paris climate accord, according to a person close to the talks. The hang-up: Administration lawyers aren't sure whether the US would expose itself legally if it remains in the Paris agreement, but decreases the carbon reduction goals which comprise its commitment to the pact. The issues were first reported by The Washington Post. Trump has already ordered his Environmental Protection Agency to review the Clean Power Plan, which was the lynchpin in the commitment President Barack Obama made in 2015 to reduce US carbon emissions by 26-28% by 2025. The administration is expected to make major alterations to the Obama-era rules which would have reduced carbon emissions. White House counsel Don Mc Ghan raised the legal concern during last Thursday's meeting of top West Wing advisers, which included senior advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, chief strategist Steve Bannon, EPA administrator Scott Pruitt and Energy Secretary Rick Perry. Trump order dismantles Obama climate policies Trump order dismantles Obama climate policies 02:14 Read More After Thursday's meeting, a senior White House official said the complex nature of the agreement has surprised some advisers inside the administration. There was no agreement inside the administration on the basic facts of the Paris climate accord, the official said, saying a final decision wouldn't be presented to Trump until some agreement on those facts are resolved. A second meeting focused specifically on the legal concerns was held Monday, according to the person close to the talks. The sticky legal situation has led to further doubts that Trump will remain in the agreement, at least as it currently stands. The possibility of "renegotiating" the US pledge to the agreement had emerged as a leading possibility. But the legal issues surrounding that option are now in question. The debate over whether to withdraw from the Paris agreement has divided Trump's advisers. Bannon has encouraged Trump to follow through on his campaign trail promises to remove the US from the plan. He's supported by Pruitt, who told " Fox & Friends" last month that he would advise the President to exit the pact. But opposing voices, including those of Kushner and Ivanka Trump, have grown more influential in shaping Trump's decisions in recent weeks. Top Cabinet officials have also spoken against removing the US from the deal, citing the negative effect such a move would have on US diplomatic relationships and global standing. Ahead of last week's meeting, a third person close to the talks characterized the debate as going beyond merely a policy dispute over the deal's carbon reduction targets. Instead, aides are weighing the repercussions of removing the US from a pact that almost every country in the world signed onto in 2015." The Paris accord is quite complicated," this person said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. " When the United States is in something, you've got to be very thoughtful and reflective about how you do it. There are so many moving pieces to Paris." Officials declined to speculate any further when the White House would announce a final decision, beyond saying Trump is still planning to announce a decision before the G7 in May. But environmental groups were already raising the alarm at any potential changes to the US pledge toward reducing its carbon emissions." Using the flexibility of the Paris Agreement to reduce our commitment, or even going so far as to pull us out, would be a disaster for the United States because it would provoke international blowback, harm our global leadership role, and threaten the health and safety of all families in this country," said Sierra Club Global Climate Policy Director John Coequyt. CNN's Jeff Zeleny contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/JkgHtpj8B_I/index.html
Trump expected to sign religious liberty executive order Trump expected to sign religious liberty executive order By Elizabeth Landers and Jeremy Diamond, CNN Updated 1442 GMT (2242 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights The signing of the executive order is a key victory for Vice President Mike Pence Pence, a staunch social conservative, has a long history of pushing for religious liberty policies ( CNN) President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order on religious liberty as early as Thursday, pushing out new policy that is likely to draw a stiff rebuke from the LGBT community. A senior administration official confirmed the plan to CNN and said it is "definitely possible" the White House could roll out the order Thursday to coincide with the National Day of Prayer, but cautioned that the timing of executive orders out of the Trump White House can often change. The official declined to describe the details of the executive order. But a draft of the order that had previously leaked to The Nation would have provided sweeping legal protections for people to claim religious exemptions, provisions that civil liberties groups claimed would allow for discrimination against LGBT Americans. The signing of the executive order is a key victory for Vice President Mike Pence, who has advocated for the signing of a religious liberty executive order inside the White House. Pence, a staunch social conservative, has a long history of pushing for religious liberty policies that have been assailed by civil liberties groups and praised by conservative and evangelical leaders. Read More Pence's advocacy for these types of religious liberty policies also triggered the most controversial period of Pence's time as governor of Indiana that ultimately drew political fire his way from both the right and left. Pence signed a Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that drew widespread criticism from civil liberties groups and businesses in the state that believed the order could be used to discriminate against gay Americans on the basis of religion. Amid the firestorm of criticism, Pence backpedaled and signed an amendment to the bill into law aimed at preventing anyone from using the law to discriminate against LGBT individuals -- earning Pence a fresh wave of criticism from social conservative warriors who argued Pence had waffled on principle. The turbulent period bruised Pence as governor of Indiana, but ultimately did not kill his social conservative credentials. Trump's pick of Pence as his running mate was greeted with a sigh of relief from many conservatives who feared Trump was not sufficiently tied to the conservative ideology. While it's unclear what exactly Trump's religious liberty executive order will accomplish, it is likely to be the latest blow Trump has delivered to LGBT rights groups, which gained substantial victories under former President Barack Obama. Trump made arguably the most direct appeal to LGBT Americans of any Republican nominee during the presidential campaign, promising he was a "real friend" to the LGBT community and vowing to protect the demographic as president. Rather than boosting LGBT protections, the Trump administration has repealed some. The Trump administration in February revoked guidelines directing public schools to allow transgender students to use the bathroom of their choice.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/A2HR5HCliWQ/index.html
First on CNN: Melania Trump no longer wears fur First on CNN: Melania Trump no longer wears fur By Kate Bennett, CNN's COVER/ LINEUpdated 1808 GMT (0208 HKT) May 3, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Melania Trump used to wear fur She no longer does ( CNN) If you were to do a Google image search for " Melania Trump and fur," plenty of pictures pop up. She's in a swingy brown cape, what appears to be a black-and-gray chinchilla, a luxe caramel-colored knee-length number; and who can forget the hat she wore during Fashion Week in 2007? In 2003, she and husband, now- President Donald Trump, even went to the opening of fur designer Dennis Basso's Manhattan boutique: However, the first lady's office now tells CNN those days are over." She does not wear fur," Stephanie Grisham, Trump's East Wing communications director said via email. Read More The news comes on the heels of a Twitter post by animal rights activist -- and Playboy Playmate -- Pamela Anderson, who showed a photo of a "thank you" note from Melania Trump, acknowledging a gift Anderson sent her following Trump's January inauguration.@flotus Dear Melania, Thank you for your sweet note. It is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace. Pamela Anderson (@pamfoundation) May 3, 2017 Anderson, an honorary director of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, mailed Trump a present in February, thanking her for wearing the blue Ralph Lauren ensemble she wore for Inauguration Day; Lauren's design house stopped using fur in 2007. Anderson's gift was a faux lamb fur coat -- with vegan belt -- made by Russian faux fur company, Only Me, and accompanied it with a letter saying in part: " I am so happy that you chose not to wear fur! As first lady, you will help set style trends, and by remaining compassionate with your choices, you will warm the hearts of many." Grisham acknowledged the first lady responded to Anderson with gratitude for the gift. " The first lady sent a nice thank you note after receiving a gift, as is common practice for her," she said. PETA praised the first lady, outlining her support for the organization in recent years." Melania first attended a PETA fashion show years ago that featured one of her favorite designers, Marc Bouwer, a longtime PETA supporter who uses no fur, leather or exotic skins in his collections," Dan Mathews, PETA senior vice president, said in a statement. " More recently, Pamela Anderson sent elegant Melania a stylish faux fur, as well as a video showing how animals are cruelly killed in the wild and on fur farms, so it's no surprise that she is now fur-free, following in the footsteps of so many fashion icons and first ladies." The most recent fur-looking outfit found via a search on Getty Images appears to be this one from 2011's Christmas Tree lighting at Rockefeller Center. But it is unclear whether the coat is real or faux, since the White House was unable to provide an exact date for when Melania Trump stopped wearing real fur. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/70KqXL-GBhA/index.html
Ivanka Trump: I've thrown work-life balance out the window By Betsy Klein, CNN Updated 1312 GMT (2112 HKT) May 2, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Ivanka Trump: Defender-in- Chief Ivanka Trump: Defender-in- Chief 02:37 Story highlights Ivanka Trump has three small children She talked about motherhood during a panel on Monday Washington ( CNN) Ivanka Trump's a busy woman. In addition to serving as a top adviser to her father, President Donald Trump, she's also the mother of three children age five and younger. She opened up about motherhood and the impossibility of work-life balance Monday at a luncheon honoring small business owners as part of National Small Business Week." I have, personally, thrown balance out the window. I don't even strive for it anymore because I don't like to intentionally set myself up for failure. I did that, probably the first two years of my daughter's life, but I've actually chilled out a bit on this front," she said, speaking on a panel at the US Institute of Peace alongside Small Business Administrator Linda Mc Mahon. " I think that balance implies a scale, which inevitably tips in one direction. And the challenge with children, so often, the levers are outside of your control," she said. The first daughter said she makes spending individual time with each of her three young children, ages 1, 3, and 5, a priority, and will not make work-related plans after getting home from a trip. Read More Case in point: she spent some quality time with son Theodore, 1, at Dumbarton Oaks Park Conservancy near her Washington home just after returning from a trip to Berlin, Germany, last week. It was an amazing trip, but it's great to be home! A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Apr 26, 2017 at 4:41pm PDT " This whole experience over the last several months I've been throwing myself into with the hope that I can have a positive impact. So there's no way to really plan for balance," she said, adding that acceptance is "an essential survival skill." RELATED: Ivanka Trump's coming out Trump said she focuses on spending quality time with her children, "since I don't have an enormous quantity of time to spend with them." Her social media feeds are peppered with images out and about and at home with her brood. Since moving to Washington in January, she's made time for visits to the National Zoo, the International Spy Museum and the National Museum of American History, among other local spots. Making some new friends in DC! 🐘 A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Mar 26, 2017 at 12:02pm PDT And she toted daughter Arabella, 5, to the Supreme Court to hear arguments. Trump and her daughter are also planning to take a coding class together this summer. " The best moment of the day!" she posted alongside an image in a living room with Theodore. The best moment of the day! A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Apr 4, 2017 at 6:36pm PDT Trump, who was previously an executive vice president for development and acquisitions at the Trump Organization and also started her own eponymous apparel and accessories brand, said she has tried to stop feeling that sense of guilt over not being there: " I call it the overwhelm. It's the overwhelm. You mentioned this sense of guilt, and I think that exists both personally and professionally, and what I've tried to do is just be present in the moment. Because those first few years were rough for me. I was in the office, I felt guilty about not being at home, I was at home, I felt guilty about not being in the office. And the only time I was at peace was when I was lying awake at 3 o'clock in the morning. My children were sleeping, obviously I couldn't be returning phone calls and I could just think and breathe." " Now, I think a lot more about just being present, just being really focused and enjoying what it is I'm doing and executing on that, you know, either in this new role or when I'm at home, really being present with my kids."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/RkhUpKKKIBA/100-days-donald-trump
Trump's first 100 days Reporting and analysis around President Donald Trump's first 100 days in office on April 29, 2017. Show Description STATEInside Donald Trump's tumultuous first 100 days By Maeve Reston, CNN100 days that changed America Trump rallies his base on his 100th day By the numbers: How Trump stacks up after 100 days We the People: 100 days in Trump's America Trump's first 100 days, in tweets How the world sees Trump, 100 days in By Christiane Amanpour, Chief International Correspondent, CNN Trump fails to force health care vote in first 100 days5 things we learned from Trump's 100-day interview 100 days of Trumpism Trump: ' I thought it would be easier' Trump sounds like he really misses not being president Trump's race against the clock to do something Trump turns to once-mocked executive orders to tout wins CNN/ ORC Poll: At 100 days, Trump approval rating shows no sign of growth100 days of Russia drama for the Trump White House, with no end in sight By Tom Lo Bianco, CNN On immigration, Trump has plenty to show in 100 days How 5 vulnerable Democratic senators have fared in Trump's first 100 days Little help for 'carnage' in Chicago during Trump's first 100 days What Hill Republicans think of Trump's tax plan: ' Not even close' to reform Trump's first 100 days on the global stage Poll: Trump approval even worse with millennials 100 days in, Democrats' biggest asset is Trump Trump voters split over accomplishments as 100 day mark nears Trump's grand plans collide with 100-day mark Poll: Trump, Democrats and GOP all unpopular These are the 100-day accomplishments Trump is touting Relive the best moments of first 100 days on loop Past 100-day moments on CNN Trump can't stop talking (and talking) about the 2016 election Trump's common speech habits as US President Trump marking 100th day with 'big rally' Every alert CNN sent in Trump's first 100 days Trump slams first 100 days construct — after repeatedly embracing it These Republicans didn't like Trump at first. They do now. Trump's 100 days in 14 charts One moment from each day of the Trump administration so far Tracking progress on campaign promises History of measuring presidents' first 100 days 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/KA4ykt12cb4/index.html
20 Republicans voted no on health care bill. Here's why. 20 Republicans voted against the health care bill. Here's why. By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 2154 GMT (0554 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump, GOP leaders celebrate health care win Trump, GOP leaders celebrate health care win 14:21 Story highlights The House held a vote Thursday to repeal and replace Obamacare with a GOP plan There 20 Republican House members who voted no on the proposal ( CNN) Of the 238 House Republicans, just 20 bucked their party leadership Thursday to vote against the American Health Care Act. ( Zero Democrats crossed party lines to vote for the bill.) So, who are these 20 GOPers -- and, more importantly, why did they vote against the much-touted GOP effort to repeal and replace Obamacare? They tend to be moderates from the Northeast and Midwest -- 11 of the 20 are from Pennsylvania (four), New Jersey (three), New York (two) and Ohio (two) -- who sit in very competitive districts. There are also a handful of outliers who opposed the bill for their own unique reasons. Below I break down the reason why behind each of the 20 GOP "no" votes. ( For how all 435 members voted on the AHCA, check this out.) Andy Biggs ( AZ-05): Biggs is a member of the House Freedom Caucus and believed the bill didn't go far enough in repealing Obamacare. " As amended, the American Health Care Act ( AHCA) would not be the clean repeal of Obamacare I promised and would not lower premiums to pre- ACA levels," he said in a statement explaining his "no" vote. Mike Coffman ( CO-06): Coffman sits in a suburban swing district. Hillary Clinton won it with 50.2% in 2016 and President Barack Obama carried it with 51.6% in 2012. Read More Barbara Comstock ( VA-10): Comstock's northern Virginia district was carried by Clinton in 2016 with 52.2% and Comstock is a major 2018 target for Democrats. Ryan Costello ( PA-06): Clinton won Costello's suburban Philadelphia district by less than a point in 2016 after Mitt Romney carried it over Obama by 2.5 points in 2012. This has been a tossup district held by Republicans for quite some time. Charlie Dent ( PA-15): Dent was one of the most outspoken moderates in opposition to the legislation. " I believe this bill, in its current form, will lead to the loss of coverage and make insurance unaffordable for too many Americans, particularly for low-to-moderate income and older individuals," Dent told the Allentown Morning Call. Interestingly, Trump carried Dent's seat by almost 8 points. Dan Donovan ( NY-11): Donovan represents a Staten Island-based district Trump carried by nearly 10 points. But, in a statement, he said that his vote was purely local; he argued the legislation would impose a tax increase on New York City residents to help offset the tax burden elsewhere in the state. Brian Fitzpatrick ( PA-08): This suburban north Philly district might be the most closely contested between the two parties over the last two presidential elections. Trump won it by .2 percentage points in 2016 and Romney won it by .1. Jaime Herrera- Beutler ( WA-03): Herrera- Beutler sits in a district Trump carried by 7 points. But she took issue with the changes being made to Medicaid by the bill. " I'm disappointed that it appears my amendment to strengthen the Medicaid safety net for the kids who depend on it for their health care will not be considered," she said in a statement. Will Hurd ( TX-23): Clinton carried Hurd's sprawling West Texas district by more than three points. More than 7 in 10 residents of Hurd's district are Hispanic. Walter Jones Jr. ( NC-03): Jones Jr. is a regular rebel against leadership's wishes. This vote was no exception. Dave Joyce ( OH-14): Trump carried Joyce's northeastern Ohio district by 12 points. But, in a statement, Joyce expressed concern with the possible premium hikes as a result of passing the AHCA. " The idea that premiums could potentially skyrocket for people with pre-existing conditions and increase 3 to 5 times for people nearing retirement is something I find unacceptable," he said on Facebook. John Katko ( NY-24): Clinton carried Katko's district by almost four points in 2016. Leonard Lance ( NJ-07): Lance, like Dent, is a high profile moderate. He also represents a central New Jersey seat that Clinton won by a point in 2016. Frank Lo Biondo ( NJ-02): Trump carried Lo Biondo's south Jersey district by almost 5 points. And Lo Biondo has been in favor of repealing the ACA. But, this bill didn't do enough "to address key and vital issues I have on the bill's impact on residents and businesses in South Jersey," he said. Tom Massie ( KY-04): Massie, who aligns with fellow Kentuckian and libertarian-leaner Sen. Rand Paul, said that the AHCA was "worse than Obamacare." Pat Meehan ( PA-07): LIke Fitzpatrick and Costello, Meehan represents a swing suburban Philadelphia district. Clinton won it by 2.3 points in 2016. Dave Reichert ( WA-08): Reichert was undecided all the way up to the vote on Thursday. He voted "no" out of concern for cuts to Medicaid in the bill. " I don't care. I have to do what I think is right," Reichert told the Seattle Times of his vote, adding of the pressure he received from House leaders: " What are they going to do? Shoot me? Stab me? I've been stabbed before." ( Reichert was the sheriff of King County prior to his service in Congress.) Ileana Ros- Lehtinen ( FL-27): Ros Lehtinen, who announced she would leave Congress in 2018 earlier this week, was outspoken in her opposition to the AHCA. " I will not support a bill that has the potential to severely harm the health and lives of people in South Florida," she said of her "no" note. Chris Smith ( NJ-04): Smith, a conservative, opposed the bill due to concerns it would cut aid to the poorest Americans. Mike Turner ( OH-10): Turner's seat went solidly for Trump. In a statement, he explained his vote: " This bill will leave our most vulnerable citizens with inadequate health coverage. I cannot support a health plan to replace Obamacare that puts my constituents' health benefits at risk."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/BuuwaW_C7-U/index.html
Health care: Republicans pass bill to replace Obamacare House Republicans pass bill to replace and repeal Obamacare By MJ Lee, CNN National Politics Reporter Updated 2153 GMT (0553 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. House passes bill to replace Obamacare (11 Videos) House passes bill to replace Obamacare Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Congressman tears up about daughter Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Jimmy Kimmel's personal story gets political Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Story highlights Final vote was 217-213, with 20 Republicans and all Democrats opposing the bill Trump confident bill will pass the Senate Democrats taunted Republicans after vote, believing GOP will suffer in 2018 elections Washington ( CNN) In a major victory for President Donald Trump, the House has voted to dismantle the pillars of the Affordable Care Act and make sweeping changes to the nation's health care system. The bill now heads to the Senate where it faces daunting challenges because of the same ideological splits between conservative and moderate Republicans that nearly killed it in the House. Trump on health care bill: Premiums will come down What's inside the health care bill? Trump said he is confident the bill will pass the Senate, calling Obamacare "essentially dead."" This is a great plan. I actually think it will get even better. This is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. Make no mistake about it," Trump said at a celebratory White House appearance with House Republicans. Read More After a dramatic week of negotiations, lobbying from Trump and Republican leaders, the vote ended with 217 GOP lawmakers backing the measure. Twenty Republicans opposed it, as did all House Democrats. Trump argued the health care process has unified the GOP. " We've developed a bond," he said. " This has really brought the Republican Party together."" As far as I'm concerned, your premiums are going to come down," Trump said. Democrats were unable to stop the GOP vote aimed at President Barack Obama's signature legislative achievement. But after the final vote was cast, they chanted "nah nah nah nah hey hey hey goodbye" to their Republican colleagues, with a few members waving, as they believe the vote will lead to many GOP lawmakers losing their seats in the November 2018 midterms. Thursday marks a political milestone -- one that has painfully eluded Trump and House leaders for months. The controversial health care bill delivered Trump the biggest political defeat of his short presidency in March, when the legislation had to be yanked from the House floor because it simply didn't have enough support. Under pressure from an antsy Trump looking to score a big political victory, Republican leaders tried again last week, hoping to to get to 216 votes ahead of the President's symbolically important 100-day mark in office. That effort, too, failed. Pelosi to GOP on health care bill: ' You will glow in the dark on this one' Before the vote on the House floor, House Speaker Paul Ryan made the case that Republicans had no choice but to work to put Obamacare -- what he called a "failing law" -- behind them. " Let's give people more choices and more control over their care."" Let's return power from Washington to the states," Ryan said. " A lot of us have been waiting seven years to cast this vote." Ryan said. Many lawmakers, he added are "here because they promised to cast this vote." ' Rocky' plays in GOP meeting Thursday morning, Republicans were already in a celebratory mode. The theme song to " Rocky" played as members filed in to a meeting in the House basement. The 11 states most likely to be affected by pre-existing conditions all voted for Trump Rep. Daniel Webster described Ryan as almost "giddy." Asked if he will be relieved when all of this is over, Virginia Rep. Dave Brat said simply: " Highly!" When it came time for House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy to speak in the meeting, an image of Gen. George S. Patton popped up on the LCD screens in the room. Mc Carthy proceeded to roll off several motivational quotes from Patton to urge the conference along. There was also high praise for Trump: New York Rep. Chris Collins credited the President for getting the bill across the finish line. " This was Donald J. Trump, the negotiator getting it done," Collins said. Before the final vote, the House unanimously passed a separate bill that will ensure members of Congress and their staffs are subject to the rules of their new health care measure. Originally, Republicans were under fire after it was reported that they wouldn't be subject to the rules of their own bill. Republicans said that they were required to include the exemption under Senate rules. Democrats ready for 2018 fight Democrats, for their part, are poised to hold the health care bill over the heads of Republicans next year. As anxious reporters stood outside of Ryan's office Wednesday night, waiting for guidance on whether there would be a vote Thursday morning, Democratic Rep. Elijah Cummings approached the group to joke that he had a "breaking" announcement. Republicans had the votes on their health care bill, Cummings said. His punchline: And Democrats will take back the House in 2018. As originally introduced, the GOP bill would leave 24 million fewer people insured by 2026 than under Obamacare, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said. There will not be a new CBO report before Thursday's vote on the legislation. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi blasted the bill and timing of the vote. Health care win could be shot in arm Trump, GOP need" Do you believe in what is in this bill?" she said Thursday. " Some of you have said ... well, they'll fix it in the Senate. But you have every provision of this bill tattoos on your forehead you will glow in the dark on this one." The remark was met with cheers and applause." You will glow in the dark," she repeated. " So don't walk the plank." But the weight of the moment -- Republicans being able to start the process of replacing Obamacare -- was not lost on Democrats. Off of the House floor, Democratic Rep. Emanuel Cleaver raised his left pant leg to show a CNN reporter huge scars he has on his knee. He said he has had six surgeries, two to replace his knee. " I'm thinking about the people back home who are hurting. I'm talking about myself. I mean, I'm a pre-existing condition," he said. " It's not apolitical game for all these people out here in the country who are hurting and scared to death." Cleaver said when Obamacare was enacted in 2010, he never could have imagined that this day would come. " I thought that even though this place has become toxic, that nobody would jeopardize the health of millions of people for some political purpose," he said. " And the number is still 24 million people who will be without health coverage." What's in the bill? The GOP health care bill would eliminate Obamacare taxes on the wealthy, insurers and others, and get rid of the individual mandate imposed by Obamacare, officially known as the Affordable Care Act. Instead of the Obamacare subsidies that are tied to income and premiums, the GOP plan would provide Americans with refundable tax credits based mainly on age to purchase health insurance. The legislation would also allow insurers to charge higher premiums to those in their 50s and early 60s, compared to younger consumers. House bill would face daunting challenges in Senate It would also significantly curtail federal support for Medicaid and allow states to require able-bodied adults to work. After 2020, states that expanded Medicaid would no longer receive enhanced federal funding to cover low-income adults, and those that hadn't expanded would be immediately barred from doing so. What the GOP health care bill really says about pre-existing conditions And it would allow states to relax some key Obamacare protections of those with pre-existing conditions, which are among the health reform law's most popular provisions. States could apply for waivers to allow insurers to offer skimpier policies that don't cover the 10 essential health benefits mandated by Obamacare. Also, insurers would be able to charge higher premiums to those with medical issues if they let their coverage lapse. States requesting waivers would have to set up programs -- such as high-risk pools -- to protect insurers from high-cost patients. An eleventh-hour amendment that helped seal the missing GOP votes would add $8 billion over five years to fund high-risk pools and go toward patients with pre-existing conditions in states that seek waivers under the Republican legislation. The legislation already included $130 billion in the fund. However, the GOP bill doesn't touch one beloved piece of Obamacare -- letting children stay on their parents' insurance plans until the age of 26. CNN's Phil Mattingly, Lauren Fox and Tami Luhby contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/cJa9fc4fHvI/index.html
House bill would face daunting challenges in Senate House bill faces challenges in Senate, but GOP already talking By Ted Barrett, CNN Updated 1827 GMT (0227 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes (10 Videos) Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Congressman tears up about daughter Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Jimmy Kimmel's personal story gets political Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Story highlights Because senators want to pass this bill with only a simple majority, it faces special restrictions The House bill will have to go through what's known as the " Byrd Bath" in the Senate Washington ( CNN) The Obamacare repeal bill that passed the House Thursday moves next to the Senate where it faces daunting challenges because of the same ideological splits between conservative and moderate Republicans that nearly killed it in the House. GOP leaders have set up a working group of senators across the ideological spectrum to try search for compromises that could unite enough Republicans to get the 51 votes needed for it to clear the chamber. " There is a working group over here of Republicans with, you know, with a range of ideology that are working to see where we go with the bill when it comes across, said Sen. Bob Corker, R- Tennessee, in an interview on MSNBC. " And I think you're going to see very responsible, deliberate action on it. People are going to want to improve it. I don't see anyway he comes back in the form it comes. It's not because I have any specific criticism of it." RELATED: 6 things that could go very wrong for GOP on the health care bill One of the biggest challenges the House bill faces is that in order for it to be eligible for simple majority vote -- instead of a 60-vote threshold usually required for major bills -- it must meet special requirements under budget reconciliation rules. One of the key demands is that it lower the deficit. It is not known if the latest iteration of the House bill will do that, especially after money was added to it to resolve differences between the hard right House Freedom Caucus and the moderate Tuesday Group. Read More GOP 'giddy' as Obamacare repeal vote nears The House bill will have to go through what's known as the " Byrd Bath," named after the late long-serving Democratic senator from West Virginia, Robert Byrd. It is the Senate Parliamentarian who makes those determinations. " If the House bill doesn't pass the Byrd Rule, than we can modify it in the Senate and try to work out the differences in conference," said Sen. John Cornyn, R- Texas, referring to a conference committee of House and Senate members that could be formed to resolve differences between final House and Senate bills. " That's really the way legislation is supposed to work. I hope they pass it ... and then our job begins again." Asked how long it will take the Senate to act on a bill, Cornyn acknowledged it won't be quick." I think it will take weeks, weeks," he said. Corker echoed that, saying it could take 30 days. Key Senate players will include: finance committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R- Utah; health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander; and Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, who introduced their own Obamacare repeal and replace bill weeks ago that many Republicans have praised. Conservative Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas, Mike Lee of Utah and Rand Paul of Kentucky are also expected to push strongly for their principles. RELATED: What's inside the Republican health care bill? The person who must lead the talks and finally shape a compromise is Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell, R- Kentucky. Because the margins are so narrow, Mc Connell can't afford any defections so every GOP senator could have enormous sway. At the same time, for Republicans to meet their long-sought goal of repealing Obamacare, they must find ways to not be rigid in their demands. Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue 00:58 But even if they pass something, there is no assurance the House would accept a dramatically altered bill so the repeal effort could fail then. " If it goes in a free market direction that lowers prices and it doesn't resemble the bill, that's fine," Rep. Dave Brat, R- Virginia, a member of the House Freedom Caucus told CNN. " But if it goes toward more central government, then no. The odds are low." And Freedom Caucus Chairman Rep. Mark Meadows said that he's already talked to 14 senators about how to move the House bill on that side. RELATED: What to watch in Thursday's health care vote CNN's Lauren Fox contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/EvHF910IIzg/index.html
Trump to visit the Vatican, Israel and Saudi Arabia Trump to visit the Vatican, Israel and Saudi Arabia on first foreign trip By Jim Acosta, Dan Merica and Jake Tapper, CNN Updated 1729 GMT (0129 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights This is Trump's first foreign trip He will also visit Saudi Arabia Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump said Thursday his first foreign trip later this month will include visits to the Vatican, Israel, and Saudi Arabia, stops that his top aides hope will both combat views of the President abroad and build toward Middle East peace. The stops will come before Trump attends a NATO meeting in Brussels on May 25 and a G7 meeting in Italy on May 26." Saudi Arabia is the custodian of the two holiest sites in Islam, and it is there that we will begin to construct a new foundation of cooperation and support with our Muslim allies to combat extremism, terrorism and violence, and to embrace a more just and hopeful future for young Muslims in their countries," Trump said Thursday in announcing his trip during a Rose Garden ceremony where the he signed a religious liberty executive order." Our task is not to dictate to others how to live, but to build a coalition of friends and partners who share the goal of fighting terrorism and bringing safety, opportunity and stability to the Middle East," Trump said. First lady Melania Trump will "will accompany her husband for the entire trip," an East Wing spokeswoman told CNN. Read More Trump, a senior administration official said, feels like accomplishing Middle East peace is "one of the things that he has to try to do" during his presidency and has been "very involved" with "a lot of ideas" during the trip's planning. The trip has been coordinated by the White House, in cooperation with the National Security Council and the State Department, another official said. To date, Trump has left the foreign travel to his top aides and Cabinet members, including Vice President Mike Pence, who has been on two international trips so far, national security adviser H. R. Mc Master and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Photos: Donald Trump's rise President-elect Donald Trump has been in the spotlight for years. From developing real estate and producing and starring in TV shows, he became a celebrity long before winning the White House. Hide Caption 1 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump at age 4. He was born in 1946 to Fred and Mary Trump in New York City. His father was a real estate developer. Hide Caption 2 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump, left, in a family photo. He was the second-youngest of five children. Hide Caption 3 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump, center, stands at attention during his senior year at the New York Military Academy in 1964. Hide Caption 4 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump, center, wears a baseball uniform at the New York Military Academy in 1964. After he graduated from the boarding school, he went to college. He started at Fordham University before transferring and later graduating from the Wharton School, the University of Pennsylvania's business school. Hide Caption 5 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump stands with Alfred Eisenpreis, New York's economic development administrator, in 1976 while they look at a sketch of a new 1,400-room renovation project of the Commodore Hotel. After graduating college in 1968, Trump worked with his father on developments in Queens and Brooklyn before purchasing or building multiple properties in New York and Atlantic City, New Jersey. Those properties included Trump Tower in New York and Trump Plaza and multiple casinos in Atlantic City. Hide Caption 6 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends an event to mark the start of construction of the New York Convention Center in 1979. Hide Caption 7 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump wears a hard hat at the Trump Tower construction site in New York in 1980. Hide Caption 8 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump was married to Ivana Zelnicek Trump from 1977 to 1990, when they divorced. They had three children together: Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric. Hide Caption 9 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise The Trump family, circa 1986. Hide Caption 10 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump uses his personal helicopter to get around New York in 1987. Hide Caption 11 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump stands in the atrium of the Trump Tower. Hide Caption 12 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends the opening of his new Atlantic City casino, the Taj Mahal, in 1989. Hide Caption 13 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump signs his second book, " Trump: Surviving at the Top," in 1990. Trump has published at least 16 other books, including " The Art of the Deal" and " The America We Deserve." Hide Caption 14 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump and singer Michael Jackson pose for a photo before traveling to visit Ryan White, a young child with AIDS, in 1990. Hide Caption 15 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump dips his second wife, Marla Maples, after the couple married in a private ceremony in New York in December 1993. The couple divorced in 1999 and had one daughter together, Tiffany. Hide Caption 16 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump putts a golf ball in his New York office in 1998. Hide Caption 17 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise An advertisement for the television show " The Apprentice" hangs at Trump Tower in 2004. The show launched in January of that year. In January 2008, the show returned as " Celebrity Apprentice." Hide Caption 18 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise A 12-inch talking Trump doll is on display at a toy store in New York in September 2004. Hide Caption 19 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends a news conference in 2005 that announced the establishment of Trump University. From 2005 until it closed in 2010, Trump University had about 10,000 people sign up for a program that promised success in real estate. Three separate lawsuits -- two class-action suits filed in California and one filed by New York's attorney general -- argued that the program was mired in fraud and deception. Trump's camp rejected the suits' claims as "baseless." And Trump has charged that the New York case against him is politically motivated. Hide Caption 20 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends the U. S. Open tennis tournament with his third wife, Melania Knauss- Trump, and their son, Barron, in 2006. Trump and Knauss married in 2005. Hide Caption 21 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump wrestles with " Stone Cold" Steve Austin at Wrestle Mania in 2007. Trump has close ties with the WWE and its CEO, Vince Mc Mahon. Hide Caption 22 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise For " The Apprentice," Trump was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in January 2007. Hide Caption 23 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump appears on the set of " The Celebrity Apprentice" with two of his children -- Donald Jr. and Ivanka -- in 2009. Hide Caption 24 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump poses with Miss Universe contestants in 2011. Trump had been executive producer of the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants since 1996. Hide Caption 25 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise In 2012, Trump announces his endorsement of Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney. Hide Caption 26 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump speaks in Sarasota, Florida, after accepting the Statesman of the Year Award at the Sarasota GOP dinner in August 2012. It was shortly before the Republican National Convention in nearby Tampa. Hide Caption 27 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump appears on stage with singer Nick Jonas and television personality Giuliana Rancic during the 2013 Miss USA pageant. Hide Caption 28 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise In June 2015, during a speech from Trump Tower, Trump announced that he was running for President. He said he would give up " The Apprentice" to run. Hide Caption 29 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump -- flanked by U. S. Sens. Marco Rubio, left, and Ted Cruz -- speaks during a CNN debate in Miami on March 10. Trump dominated the GOP primaries and emerged as the presumptive nominee in May. Hide Caption 30 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise The Trump family poses for a photo in New York in April. Hide Caption 31 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump speaks during a campaign event in Evansville, Indiana, on April 28. After Trump won the Indiana primary, his last two competitors dropped out of the GOP race. Hide Caption 32 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump delivers a speech at the Republican National Convention in July, accepting the party's nomination for President. " I have had a truly great life in business," he said. " But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country -- to go to work for you. It's time to deliver a victory for the American people." Hide Caption 33 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump faces Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the first presidential debate, which took place in Hempstead, New York, in September. Hide Caption 34 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump apologizes in a video, posted to his Twitter account in October, for vulgar and sexually aggressive remarks he made a decade ago regarding women. " I said it, I was wrong and I apologize," Trump said, referring to lewd comments he made during a previously unaired taping of " Access Hollywood." Multiple Republican leaders rescinded their endorsements of Trump after the footage was released. Hide Caption 35 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump walks on stage with his family after he was declared the election winner on November 9. " Ours was not a campaign, but rather, an incredible and great movement," he told his supporters in New York. Hide Caption 36 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump is joined by his family as he is sworn in as President on January 20. Hide Caption 37 of 37 Trump's visits to the Vatican, Israel and Saudi Arabia were first reported by Politico. Other senior administration officials told CNN this is part of the strategy to reach out across religions and countries to combat extremism -- both to fight ISIS and to further isolate Iran. He will visit Jerusalem, Israel, and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, according to a senior administration official. There is also a clear interest among top aides in the White House to counter the view Trump has cultivated abroad." Saudi Arabia is going to convene a lot of the leaders from the Muslim world, and you will see that there is a lot of objectives they share with America," one senior administration official said. Trump ran on a ban of Muslims entering the United States, proposing the in a December 2015 announcement a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States" until American officials could get a handle on terror. While his campaign slowly backed away from that pledge, one of Trump's first actions in the White House was to push a travel ban for seven - and eventually six - Muslim majority countries. The trip is meant to show that Trump's " America First" motto is "fully compatible with American leadership in the world," another official said. Trump's election has provided the United States with opportunities to "re-engage the world," the officials said, given Trump's perceived unpredictability and that he is "not dogmatic to one school of thought, (rather) open-minded, flexible and opportunistic." The senior administration officials said it's a time when the Trump administration can pursue policies that "strengthen our hand and weaken our enemies." " Certain things will be formalized and announced in the time leading up to the visit," one senior administration official said. Trump stacks schedule for foreign policy advice A second senior administration official said that a recent visit to Saudi Arabia revealed an open-mindedness to stepping up and leading in a way the official had not seen in the country since right after 9/11. " Saudi Arabia realizes the challenges it has; and there is a similar feeling throughout the region," the official said. Part of the problem, the officials said, stems from the Obama administration's nuclear deal with Iran, which they view as providing a path to a nuclear weapon for the country, as well as Iran's continued funding of terrorism throughout the region. The officials add the administration has been working hard to produce a "meaningful set of deliverables" to be announced around the trip. Trump's first foreign trip is coming later in his presidency than any president since Lyndon B. Johnson, who waited over 10 months after President John F. Kennedy was killed to travel abroad. He is also the first president since Carter to not make his first trip to Mexico or Canada. Trump's top advisers insist the President is focused on making deals with foreign leaders in a bid to create a more secure planet, despite the lack of foreign travel. They point to frequent visits from foreign leaders -- including the most recent visit of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas -- as proof that Trump has influence on foreign affairs from the White House. White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Thursday the President's first trip came after King Salman bin Abd Al- Aziz of Saudi Arabia, President Reuven Rivlin and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority extended invites to Trump. Trump will also meet with Pope Francis at the Vatican during his trip, Spicer said. CNN's Kevin Liptak, Athena Jones and Kate Bennett contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/aPxS0SqXd5Q/index.html
World leaders have a go to tactic with Trump: Flattery, and lots of it World leaders have a go-to tactic with Trump: Flattery, and lots of it By Dan Merica, CNN Updated 1641 GMT (0041 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump and May: The new Thatcher and Reagan? Trump and May: The new Thatcher and Reagan? 01:24 Story highlights May said Trump, like her, was a president for the "ordinary working people" Netanyahu name-checked Trump's seminal book " The Art of the Deal" Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump may be a new face on the international stage, but visiting foreign leaders from around the globe have quickly embraced a strategy for currying favor: flattery. British Prime Minister Theresa May cribbed some of Trump's own talking points about himself, lauding his 2016 election win as "stunning" during her visit in January and saying Trump, like her, was a president for the "ordinary working people." Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe buttered up Trump's golf game: " My scores in golf is not up to the level of Donald, at all, but my policy is never up, never in, always aiming for the cup." And Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu name-checked Trump's seminal book -- " The Art of the Deal" -- while casting him as a stronger leader than his predecessor: " Our alliance has been remarkably strong, but under your leadership, I'm confident it will get even stronger." Most recently, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas told Trump Wednesday that his "great negotiating ability" will make peace with Israel more likely. Read More" I believe that we are capable, under your leadership and your courageous stewardship and your wisdom, as well your great negotiating ability," Abbas said through a translator. " I believe with the grace of God, and with all of your effort, we believe that we can be partners, true partners to you, to bring about a historic peace treaty." Abbas: With Trump's wisdom, peace is possible Abbas: With Trump's wisdom, peace is possible 00:46 Flattery plays to Trump's ego Foreign flattery plays directly into Trump's view of himself, something the world leaders hope will win them affection with the United States. Asked about Trump's diplomatic style and what makes the situation between Israelis and Palestinians different under his administration, White House press secretary Sean Spicer responded bluntly: " The man is different."" The President's diplomacy style is paying dividends," Spicer said. " The relationships and the foundation that the President is building are going to pay huge dividends for this country ... This President's style is one to develop a personal bond with individuals." Trump has not hidden his ego throughout his decades-long business career. His name is his brand and it's plastered on buildings around the world. His campaign regulatory filing valued it at $3.32 billion. Trump has also fashioned himself a dealmaker of historic proportions since his earliest days on the New York real estate scene, someone who knows when to push the person across the table because he understands people. He has even mentioned his history as a dealmaker to seemingly explain why flattery could work well on him. Russian President Vladimir Putin praised Trump as "bright and talented" during the 2016 Republican Primary. Trump called the comments a "great honor." " I know people, because deals are people. If Putin respects me, and if Putin wants to call me brilliant, and other things that he said which were, frankly, very nice, I'll accept that," Trump said. " And I'll accept that on behalf of our country, because if we get along well with Russia, that's a positive thing." Netanyahu, Trump to rekindle US- Israel bond Netanyahu, Trump to rekindle US- Israel bond 02:00 More than cosmetic The flattery hasn't just been cosmetic; it has also been substantive. When NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg visited the White House, he told reporters -- alongside Trump -- that the President's advocacy for greater contributions to defense funding from member nations has led to action among other NATO countries." We are already seeing the effect of your strong focus on the importance of burden-sharing in the alliance," Stoltenberg said. " We agree that allies need to redouble their efforts to meet the pledge we all made in 2014 to invest more in our alliance." The flattery also steals a page from the former business leader's own playbook. Trump was a prolific letter writer in the early stages of his career, routinely ripping out magazine articles about a person, sending it to them with fawning words. More recently, reporters, like The Irish Times' Simon Carswell, have written about how positive articles about Trump or his properties have been received warmly." Thanks to you and the wonderful Simon Carswell for the great story on Trump International Golf Links, Ireland. It will be great," Trump tweeted in 2014.@ Irish Times Thanks to you and the wonderful Simon Carswell for the great story on Trump International Golf Links, Ireland. It will be great— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 10, 2014 Those tendencies have followed Trump to the White House." Strong hands," Trump said in the Oval Office about Japan's Abe, mimicking a golf swing in the process. Abe, visibly taken aback by the comment, responded with a laugh.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/wJhJ8NAF2Fg/index.html
Obama endorses French presidential candidate Macron Obama endorses French presidential candidate Macron By Sophie Tatum, CNN Updated 1548 GMT (2348 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Obama weighs in on French election Obama weighs in on French election 01:07 Story highlights Macron is up against far-right leader Marine Le Pen It's unusual for a former US president to make an endorsement in a foreign election Washington ( CNN) Former US President Barack Obama is wading into the closely watched French presidential election to endorse Emmanuel Macron, the centrist politician widely backed by the establishment in his run against far-right leader Marine Le Pen." I have admired the campaign that Emmanuel Macron has run," Obama says in a video, which Macron shared Thursday. " He has stood up for liberal values, he put forward a vision for the important role that France plays in Europe and around the world. And he is committed to a better future for the French people. He appeals to people's hopes and not their fears." L'espoir est en marche. Merci @ Barack Obama. Emmanuel Macron (@ Emmanuel Macron) May 4, 2017 " I'm not planning to get involved in many elections now that I don't have to run for office again, but the French election is very important to the future of France and to the values that we care so much about," Obama says in the clip." Because of how important this election is, I also want you to know that I am supporting Emmanuel Macron to lead you forward." It's unusual for a former US president to make an endorsement in a foreign election, though former US President Bill Clinton backed future British Prime Minister Gordon Brown in 2006. A message left with Obama's office asking why he felt compelled to support Macron was not immediately returned. Read More Macron and Le Pen faced-off Wednesday in France's final presidential debate, and the final run-off vote will take place on Sunday. During the French primary, Macron also shared a private phone call of Obama wishing him luck, but not yet endorsing him, on Twitter. " The main message that I have is to wish you all the best in the coming days," Obama said in the phone call. Let's keep defending our progressive values. Thank you for this discussion @ Barack Obama. Emmanuel Macron (@ Emmanuel Macron) April 20, 2017 Le Pen -- who has harshly criticized the European Union and vowed to pull France out of NATO -- has been praised by US President Donald Trump, who told The Associated Press in April she was "strongest on borders, and she's the strongest on what's been going on in France." CNN's Allie Malloy contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/aQk_qdzRki8/index.html
Donald Trump calls reported testy call with Australian PM Malcolm Turnbull 'a big exaggeration' Trump calls reported testy call with Australian PM 'a big exaggeration' By Miranda Green, CNN Updated 0228 GMT (1028 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump and Australian Prime Minister meet Trump and Australian Prime Minister meet 02:33 Story highlights Trump says past reports of a tense call with Australia's PM were "a little bit of fake news" The President boasted of a close relationship between Australia and US during his Thursday speech Washington ( CNN) US President Donald Trump tried to put to rest reports of tensions with Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull Thursday, saying their relationship is "fantastic" -- and calling reports of a heated phone call between the two in January "a big exaggeration." Speaking to reporters before an event aboard the USS Intrepid, Trump said of Turnbull: " We get along great. We have a fantastic relationship, I love Australia, I always have." Trump's roller coaster first week of diplomacy When asked about a January call that reportedly got tense between the two world leaders, Trump said: " We had a great telephone call. You guys exaggerated that call. That was a big exaggeration. We're not babies. That was a little bit of fake news." Turnbull agreed with Trump's assessment, saying, " That's exactly right." The phone call, shortly after Trump took office, centered around a US- Australia agreement made under former President Barack Obama for the US to accept refugees from Australia. Many of them are from the countries affected by Trump's travel ban, which is being contested in court. Days later, Trump sent a tweet calling the agreement a "dumb deal." Read More US- Australia refugee deal: What you need to know Since then, the White House has worked to mend relations between the two countries. Trump sat near Turnbull at Thursday night's event and gave a speech that heavily lauded the strong relationship or "mateship" between the two countries, saying at one point, "our two nations were born as the rebellious children of the same parent." During his speech, Trump brought the call up once more." We had a nice phone call right?" Trump said, addressing Turnbull. " Now the record is straight -- we had a very nice phone call." Trump added that the call was "a little testy, but that's OK," ending that he's "very proud of that relationship." Thursday's dinner was the first meeting between the two leaders since Trump took office. CNN's Steve Brusk contributed to this report
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/UjTzp6sH-0E/index.html
Military perplexed after Trump religious liberty comment Military perplexed after Trump says soldiers couldn't get religious items By Barbara Starr, CNN Pentagon Correspondent Updated 0158 GMT (0958 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump signs religious liberty executive order (10 Videos) Trump signs religious liberty executive order Camera explores inside sunken USS Arizona Navy's new ' Excalibur' weapon tested US Navy commissions newest littoral combat ship Navy's newest ship USS Zumwalt commissioned US Navy launches new warship Navy warship tested against 10,000-pound explosive Navy's $3 B stealth warship sets sail Trump says fighter jet is too expensive (2016) US delivers F-35 fighter jets to Israel Story highlights Pentagon officials are adamant there is no policy that prohibits members of the military from receiving religious items Defense Department policies prohibit proselytizing at military installations Washington ( CNN) When President Donald Trump signed an executive order promoting religious liberty on Thursday, he singled out the US military for preventing troops from receiving religious items." People were forbidden from giving or receiving religious items at a military hospital where our brave service members were being treated, and when they wanted those religious items," Trump said at the signing ceremony. " These were great, great people. These are great soldiers. They wanted those items. They were precluded from getting them." It was a comment that raised eyebrows at the Pentagon. Pentagon officials are adamant there is no policy that prohibits members of the military from receiving religious items at military installations. Military hospitals are considered the same as a military base, so security and patient privacy concerns require that any donation of any outside items by non-military groups be reviewed and distributed with chaplains overseeing religious matters. And no outside group can enter a hospital or a patients room without permission, according to defense officials. Read More But that doesn't mean service members there can't receive religious items. Indeed, service members have the option of declaring their faith in their personnel records so chaplains of that religion can ensure they get whatever religious items or services they wish. So what was Trump referring to in his comments? The White House did not immediately respond to a request for clarification. But Pentagon officials said he was likely referring to a situation in 2011 at the Army's Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington." In 2011, a local patient visitation policy was issued at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center that was written to prevent unsolicited proselytizing from religious groups, including the distribution of their religious items to patients who had not asked for them," the Pentagon said in a statement sent to CNN." Due to the wording of that policy, religious groups interpreted the policy to be an outright ban on visitation and distribution of religious items," the statement continued. " The policy was subsequently re-written to eliminate ambiguity, stating that, ' Patients determine their visitors.' " Military officials have emphasized for the last several years that Defense Department policies prohibit proselytizing at military installations.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/DUCEpMd5-6w/index.html
Could orange juice hold the key to bipartisan agreement in the Sunshine State? An unscientific analysis of the Florida delegation's feelings on orange juice By Brenna Williams, CNN Updated 0121 GMT (0921 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Thursday marks National Orange Juice Day It's a real thing CNN asked Florida's congressional delegation its thoughts on OJ Could orange juice hold the key to bipartisan agreement in the Sunshine State? ( CNN) In addition to being the day the House of Representatives passed an Obamacare repeal bill and the unofficial Star Wars day, Thursday was also National Orange Juice Day. It's a totally real thing promoted by the state's Department of Citrus, which you should not be surprised to hear is also a real thing. Florida is proud of its citrus, even offering visitors cups of orange juice at the state's welcome centers -- perhaps softening the blow of having to use a rest stop. Most Floridians have strong preferences on their orange juice, so we decided to reach out to every member of Florida's congressional delegation to squeeze some answers out of them regarding what is arguably the state's greatest export. ( Note: The author of this piece is both a native Floridian and # Team No Pulp, but that bias could not skew the answers received straight from the lawmakers' offices.) Of the 29 members of the Florida delegation, 15 responded -- nine Republicans and six Democrats. This is by no means conclusive analysis. But let's keep in mind we're talking about a breakfast/welcome center drink, so let's keep this lighthearted. Read More Thirteen respondents say their offices have Florida orange juice available for visitors and constituents, while two others indicated that a juice fridge is something they're working on. Based on the responses, it seems like Tropicana is the unofficial juice provider for most of respondents, even providing branded refrigerators to some offices. The company did not return a request for comment. Offices don't choose what kind of juice is delivered, with deliveries varying from Some Pulp to No Pulp. On thing is clear: orange juice is a big hit. Look at Rep. Al Lawson's overjoyed staffer reacting to an OJ delivery! On a February trip to the offices of Sen. Marco Rubio and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, CNN found Tropicana in both offices -- although it should be noted that the senator only had one bottle of the stuff left -- with Rubio repping Some Pulp and Wasserman Schultz laying claim to None. Speaking of pulp preferences, a bipartisan majority of eight, including Sen. Bill Nelson, said that they prefer No Pulp. Even if there are times when they don't agree on legislation, (they split along party lines on the health care bill), there is at least one thing a majority stands behind. Even then, several lawmakers had willingness to show flexibility. " I keep consistently no pulp regardless of the location. However sometimes Mrs. Soto buys Some Pulp OJ and I drink it rather than let it go to waste," Democratic Rep. Darren Soto, who represents one of Florida's largest citrus-producing counties, told CNN via email. Interestingly, all six respondents who preferred pulp were from the GOP. Republican Rep. Daniel Webster's office explained via email, " His parents had orange trees and his mom would juice them, she included pulp and expected him and his sister to drink it that way." Two members indicated that they can find their juice on both sides of the grocery aisle. And one of them could not choose between the options given as part of the informal survey. According to Rubio's press secretary, the senator chooses between " No Pulp and Some Pulp -- as long as it's from Florida!" Rep. Charlie Crist, who has served as both the Republican governor of the state and a Democratic member of the House, goes right down the middle with his choice. Some Pulp. Regardless of preferences, it's always sweet to have a taste of Sunshine on the Hill. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/0cKPD70Bdew/index.html
Team Obama reacts to Obamacare repeal vote Team Obama reacts to Obamacare repeal vote Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 0014 GMT (0814 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Former vice president Joe Biden was not happy with the House passing the GOP health care bill. Story highlights House Republicans claimed victory after successfully garnering 217 "yes" votes to repeal and replace Obamacare A handful of Democrats took to social media to throw shade at the Republican party after the vote Washington ( CNN) Unsurprisingly, Team Obama is not happy about the potential end to Obamacare. Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and former Vice President Joe Biden on Thursday evening added to the social chatter over the GOP's health care bill passing the House. The outspoken Obamacare advocates called the bill's passage shameful." A shameful failure of policy & morality by GOP today," Clinton wrote. " Fight back on behalf of the millions of families that will be hurt by their actions." The former secretary of state then shared a tweet from progressive organization Swing Left, which links to a donation page. Clinton is expected to launch a political organization aimed at funding "resistance" groups standing up to President Donald Trump, CNN reported Thursday. A shameful failure of policy & morality by GOP today. Fight back on behalf of the millions of families that will be hurt by their actions: Hillary Clinton (@ Hillary Clinton) May 4, 2017 Read More Biden was equally disappointed in the House." Day of shame in Congress. Protections for pre-existing conditions, mental health, maternity care, addiction services -- all gone," Biden wrote in a two-part tweet. " Millions of Americans will lose coverage. Up to the Senate now. Hoping for courage to return." Day of shame in Congress. Protections for pre-existing conditions, mental health, maternity care, addiction services -- all gone.— Joe Biden (@ Joe Biden) May 4, 2017 Millions of Americans will lose coverage. Up to the Senate now. Hoping for courage to return.— Joe Biden (@ Joe Biden) May 4, 2017 The GOP bill would eliminate taxes on the wealthy, insurers and others and get rid of the individual mandate imposed by Obamacare. Other Democrats also chimed in on social media -- some threw shade at Republicans, while others promised to continue fighting for Obamacare and their constituents. How Democrats responded to the House's health care vote The bill now heads to the Senate.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/jlhPhiWnPR0/index.html
Congressman admits he didn't read full health care bill before voting Congressman admits he didn't read full health care bill before voting By Christina Manduley, CNN Updated 0134 GMT (0934 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Rep. Collins: I didn't read health care bill Rep. Collins: I didn't read health care bill 01:18 ( CNN) Republican Rep. Chris Collins admitted Thursday that he did not read the full health care bill before voting for it. " I will fully admit, Wolf, I did not. But I can also assure you my staff did. We have to rely on our staff," Collins told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on " The Situation Room." The New York lawmaker said he had several meetings to discuss how this plan would affect Americans and he's "very comfortable that we have a solution to the disaster called ' Obamacare.'" Blitzer pressed further, " This legislation affects one-fifth of the US economy, and millions of millions of Americans. Don't you think it was important to sit down and read the language of this bill?" But Collins stuck to his admission, and noted he probably wasn't the only congressman who didn't read the bill in its entirety. Read More Collins said, " I have to rely on my staff. And I can probably tell you that I read every word, and I wouldn't be telling you the truth, nor would any other member. We rely on our staff and we rely on our committees. I'm comfortable that I understand this bill in its entirety, Wolf, without poring through every word. I'm being quite honest, that's the way it is." Earlier in the day, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise told CNN's Jake Tapper that "every member who voted on this bill had more than enough time to read every aspect of it." He said that the full bill was less than 200 pages, and the changes made Thursday were about three pages long. Last-minute amendments were added to the previous bill, and the House voted to make sweeping changes to America's health care system. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/BqiyMJXvbRI/index.html
Pence talks immigration at Cinco de Mayo celebration Pence talks immigration at Cinco de Mayo celebration By Betsy Klein, CNN Updated 2305 GMT (0705 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Cinco de Mayo is Friday Vice President Pence hosted a reception on Thursday Washington ( CNN) Vice President Mike Pence hosted a reception celebrating Cinco de Mayo in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, an event traditionally attended by the President. In brief remarks, Pence brought greetings from President Donald Trump and praised Mexican- American and Hispanic- American communities as "one of the most vibrant threads in our national fabric," specifically addressing immigration. " We are, as the saying goes, with a few exceptions, a nation of immigrants, and that's as true today as it was at the hour of America's birth," Pence told a room of invited guests, including members of the Hispanic community, Mexican Ambassador Gerónimo Gutierrez and Labor Secretary Alex Acosta. Pence proceeded to tell the story of his grandfather, an Irish immigrant. He also took a quick mid-speech victory lap over the House passing the GOP-backed health care bill that would replace Obamacare. Trump celebrates with House GOP after health bill passes Trump celebrates with House GOP after health bill passes 04:56 Gutierrez subtly referenced US- Mexican tension with a message for the vice president and guests assembled. Read More" True friendship, they say, must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity to be worthy of its name," he said. " May this Cinco de Mayo remind us all, as Presidents Benito Juarez and Abraham Lincoln foresaw, that strong and successful Mexico is in the interest of the United States, as much as a strong and successful United State is in the interest of Mexico." Cinco de Mayo commemorates the Mexican victory over the French at the Battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862, which Pence referred to as "a day defined by courage and sacrifice in the defense of freedom." George W. Bush's administration was the first to began hosting Cinco de Mayo festivities. The atmosphere on Thursday evening was festive: attendees were jam-packed into the Indian Treaty Room, chatting before the vice president's arrival with some gathered around bar-height tables set with sunflowers and bright green tablecloths. Chicken tostadas, tuna empanadas, tostadas, and churros were on the menu, and guests sipped on bottles of Corona and glasses of white wine. Mexico foreign minister on working with Trump Mexico foreign minister on working with Trump 15:11 Trump's relationship with Mexico hasn't exactly gotten off to a friendly start. " We're going to build a wall, and Mexico is going to pay for it," was a hallmark rallying cry of the President's 2016 campaign, a promise the White House says will be fulfilled through new funding appropriated by Congress. Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto canceled his February trip to Washington after a series of Trump tweets about the border wall. Trump is also the first president since Carter to not make his first trip to Mexico or Canada. Last year, the then-candidate raised eyebrows with his Cinco de Mayo tweet. " Happy # Cinco De Mayo! The best taco bowls are made in Trump Tower Grill. I love Hispanics!" he wrote. Happy # Cinco De Mayo! The best taco bowls are made in Trump Tower Grill. I love Hispanics! Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 5, 2016 President Barack Obama held a Cinco de Mayo reception seven of his eight years in office. The 2009, 2011, and 2014-2016 events were held in the White House East Room, and 2010 and 2012 were celebrated in the Rose Garden. There was no celebration in 2013 because he traveled to Mexico City that week. " Nothing ruins a good fiesta like a long speech from a politician," Obama joked in 2011, later adding, " You do not want to be between Michelle and a tamale." Bush celebrated with music each year, including Rose Garden events in 2005, 2007 and 2008, and East Room events in 2002, 2004 and 2006. At a celebration on the South Lawn in 2001, Bush's nephew, George P. Bush, danced with Mexican singer Thalía. Bob Scanlan, who served as White House florist for 13 years, was responsible for the floral arrangements for all of the May 5 celebrations during the Bush years, as well as Obama's first Cinco de Mayo. The event, he told CNN, was an opportunity for him to work with bright colors and for the White House chefs to serve traditional Mexican fare." It was a celebration and a reason for their staff and friends to have a party more than anything else, but it was certainly well-executed and thought out, it wasn't a drop-of-a-hat type event," he said of the Bush years, noting that planning began a few weeks ahead of time. " It was all about just having an opportunity to reward the staff, an excuse to get together and celebrate and have a good group. It wasn't really political," he said. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/zfUbvTHcR0c/index.html
The 11 states most likely to be affected by pre-existing conditions all voted for Trump Analysis by Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1711 GMT (0111 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Ryan in 2009: We shouldn't rush health bill (14 Videos) Ryan in 2009: We shouldn't rush health bill Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Clinton slams politicians over women's health King: Leave pre-existing conditions to states Rep. Brooks: Sick people should pay more Trump: ' No particular rush' on health care Tom Price predicts GOP health bill will pass GOP lawmaker questioned on Trump's past words Story highlights11 states have 30% or more of the under-65 population with some sort of pre-existing condition All 11 of those states voted for Trump ( CNN) Later today, House Republicans will try to pass a health care bill that voids the federal mandate requiring insurance companies to cover patients with pre-existing conditions. They insist that by creating high risk pools in states -- and using several billion dollars allocated to them to defray costs for patients -- they can ensure that no one with a pre-existing condition is left without coverage. But subsidized high risk pools are not the same thing as a mandate banning discrimination against those with pre-existing conditions. It's just not. And, looking at the states with the largest percentages of people under age 65 with pre-existing conditions, if the GOP's high risk pool plan goes south it runs the risk of more adversely affecting those in states that voted for President Donald Trump. Of the 11 states in which 30% or more of the under-65 population has some sort of pre-existing condition, all 11 were won by Trump in 2016. Here's the full list (% of under 65 population with pre-existing conditions): Read More These numbers come from a 2016 study by the non-partisan Kaiser Family Foundation. ( If you're wondering: The national average of people under 65 with pre-existing conditions not covered by pre- Obamcare health care is 27%.) What those numbers mean is that many of the people most in favor of repealing and replacing Obamacare are also the people most likely to be directly affected -- and not in a good way -- if the new GOP bill becomes law. It's not immediately clear what the political ramifications of that reality would be.  Reporters: Trump handed out these in interview Reporters: Trump handed out these in interview 01:54 On one hand, Republicans have a cushion in most of these states, politically speaking, and so may be able to withstand some degree of fallout even if the GOP plan doesn't work out as planned. On the other, people tend to pay more attention -- and be more unhappy -- when a change made by Congress directly impacts something they have relied on. And, if the House GOP's change on pre-existing conditions means that people in the 11 states above can't get any sort of coverage, there could be a political price to pay.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/sekdvNeL458/index.html
31 seconds of the healthcare vote that shows why people hate politics 31 seconds of the healthcare vote that shows why people hate politics By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 0115 GMT (0915 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote 00:31 ( CNN) When House Republicans secured their 216th "yes" on the American Health Care Act Thursday, Democrats immediately began taunting their across-the-aisle rivals." Na Na Na Na, Hey Hey Hey, Goodbye," Democrats sang at Republicans. A few Democrats even waved goodbye. The implication was obvious: Democrats believed many Republicans had just cost themselves their political careers by voting for an overhaul of Obamacare. And the DC political class wonders why people hate them. I understand that Democrats not only didn't like the way this bill was passed -- without any estimates on what it might cost or how many people might lose coverage as a result -- but also believed the policies contained in it would leave the country and its people considerably worse off. Read More That is a worthy conversation to have. But, that's not what Democrats were doing. Instead, they were jeering and mocking their colleagues. Republicans just won a health care battle. Winning the war is going to be much tougher. Look. We have two parties in this country for a reason. Democrats and Republicans don't always disagree on the problems the country faces but do almost always disagree on how to solve them. Debating those differences is the stuff of democracy. Giving the public the chance, every two years, to render their judgment on who has more of the right in the argument is the backbone of our political system. The 11 states most likely to be affected by pre-existing conditions all voted for Trump Poll after poll suggests that one thing both sides broadly agree on is that they prefer bipartisan compromise to go-it-alone-ism. When House Democrats act like they did today -- or President Trump acts like he does almost every day -- we get further and further from even the possibility of finding common ground or even just talking to each other like human beings. It also convinces people not in Washington or not involved in politics that the people who are representing them in DC have no real idea what they care about or value. That's a very bad thing for the long-term health of our democracy.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/iLObaHS5Cbw/index.html
Senate OKs bill to fund government through September Senate OKs bill to fund government through September By Ted Barrett, CNN Updated 2006 GMT (0406 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Spicer: Confident government won't shut down Spicer: Confident government won't shut down 02:39 ( CNN) The Senate gave final approval to a giant government funding bill Thursday and will send it to President Donald Trump for his signature. The bipartisan tally was 79 to 18. The vote came a day after the House cleared the measure and a day before the government otherwise would have run out of money. The $1.1 trillion will fund agencies through the end of September. It took weeks of tough talk to reach the compromise, and both sides of the aisle have claimed victory over what's in the bill. RELATED: What's in and what's out in the latest government spending bill
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Ud9OCxI_WIk/index.html
Dems to GOP after AHCA vote: ' Hey hey hey, goodbye' Dems to GOP after AHCA vote: ' Hey hey hey, goodbye' By Miranda Green, CNN Updated 2005 GMT (0405 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote 00:31 Story highlights Democrats tell Republicans who voted for health care bill: "hey hey hey goodbye" The Steam song has been invoked a couple times in political history Washington ( CNN) Following the passage of the Republican health care bill Thursday, the House floor erupted into song. But they weren't sounds of triumph, they were words of warning from House Democrats to the GOP. As giddy Republicans clapped when they got the necessary 216 votes to pass the bill effectively replacing Obamacare, members of the Democratic party broke out into: " Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye," singing to the conservatives in the room. The song signaled what many Democrats believe will be a turning point for Republicans -- a vote that will ultimately lose GOP members votes and end the Republican majority in the House. This is not the first time that the primary sentiment of the Steam song, later covered by the Supremes, was evoked on the House floor. In 1993, House Republicans sang "goodbye" to Rep. Marjorie Margolies- Mezvinsky from Pennsylvania, who voted in favor of President Bill Clinton's deficit-reduction package -- breaking with her own previous opposition and that of her conservative district. She cast the House's 218th and deciding vote for the bill, which went on to become law. Margolies- Mezvinsky lost her re-election the next year. Read More The song has also been sung following other significant moments in US history. Obama voters chanted the song outside the White House -- which at the time was still occupied by President George W. Bush -- following Obama's presidential win on election night in 2008. Crowds again sang the song outside the White House in 2011, following news that 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden had been killed.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Pl0VbwyEa1Q/index.html
Emotional GOP congressman cites family medical bills after vote Emotional GOP congressman cites family medical bills after vote By Theodore Schleifer, CNN Updated 1950 GMT (0350 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Congressman tears up about daughter Congressman tears up about daughter 02:05 Story highlights" I'm trying to protect people who are vulnerable," he said Mac Arthur shared struggles of paying for medical bills for his eldest daughter Washington ( CNN) The Republican congressman who offered a key amendment that helped save the House health care bill grew emotional after its passage Thursday, citing his own family's medical history. Rep. Tom Mac Arthur, whose tweak won the support of several wayward Republicans to the narrowly passed House GOP bill, said he wasn't concerned about political backlash." There's been a lot of misinformation about this bill. I am doing just the opposite of what they claim," he told CNN's Dana Bash. " I'm trying to protect people who are vulnerable." Mac Arthur shared struggles of paying for medical bills for his eldest daughter, who died when she was 11, and his father's difficulties paying the medical bills of his mother, who died when Mac Arthur was 4 years old." If I have a target on my back, then so be it," he said. " I did not come here to decorate a chair."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/gLXOA1pMH0k/index.html
The Republican who voted 'no' on health care bill Here's a list of the Republicans who voted 'no' on the health care bill By Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 2000 GMT (0400 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. House passes bill to replace Obamacare (14 Videos) House passes bill to replace Obamacare Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Clinton slams politicians over women's health King: Leave pre-existing conditions to states Rep. Brooks: Sick people should pay more Trump: ' No particular rush' on health care Tom Price predicts GOP health bill will pass GOP lawmaker questioned on Trump's past words Story highlights The House voted 217-213 to pass the American Health Care Act ( AHCA) Thursday The bill now heads to the Senate Washington ( CNN) House Republicans claimed victory Thursday after successfully garnering 217 "yes" votes to repeal and replace Obamacare. But there were 20 Republicans who were not on board for the GOP health care plan, called the American Health Care Act. Here's a list of the GOP members who opposed the bill, many of whom are in competitive districts.1. Andy Biggs Represents Arizona's Fifth Congressional District. Read More2. Mike Coffman Represents Colorado's Sixth Congressional District.3. Barbara Comstock Represents Virginia's 10th Congressional District.4. Ryan A. Costello Represents Pennsylvania's Sixth Congressional District. How every member voted on health care bill5. Charlie Dent Represents Pennsylvania's 15th Congressional District6. Dan Donovan Represents New York's 11th Congressional District.7. Brian Fitzpatrick Represents Pennsylvania's Eighth Congressional District.8. Jaime Herrera Beutler Represents Southwest Washington's Third Congressional District. 9. Will Hurd Represents Texas' 23rd Congressional District.10. Walter B. Jones Represents the North Carolina's Congressional District.11. David Joyce Represents Ohio's 14th Congressional District.12. John Katko Represents New York's 24th Congressional District.13. Leonard Lance House Republicans pass bill to replace and repeal Obamacare Represents New Jersey's Seventh Congressional District.14. Frank A. Lo Biondo Represents New Jersey's Second Congressional District.15. Thomas Massie Represents Kentucky's Fourth Congressional District.16. Patrick Meehan Represents Pennsylvania's Seventh Congressional District.17. Dave Reichert Represents Washington's Eighth Congressional District.18. Ileana Ros- Lehtinen Represents Florida's 27th Congressional District.19. Christopher H. Smith Represents New Jersey's Fourth Congressional District.20. Michael R. Turner Represents Ohio's 10th Congressional District.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Et33bINoUtU/index.html
Nancy Pelosi to GOP on health care bill: ' You will glow in the dark on this one' Pelosi to GOP on health care bill: ' You will glow in the dark on this one' By Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 1828 GMT (0228 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them 00:44 Story highlights Republicans have spent the last week trying to secure votes for the bill Their bill would get rid of the individual mandate imposed by Obamacare Washington ( CNN) House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is fired up over the GOP health care bill. On Thursday, moments before the House passed a bill that would replace Obamacare, also known as the Affordable Health Care Act, the California Democrat called out Republicans who planned on voting "yes." The bill, which now heads to the Senate, would eliminate taxes on the wealthy, insurers and others, and get rid of the individual mandate imposed by Obamacare." Do you believe in what is in this bill?" she said. " Some of you have said ... well, they'll fix it in the Senate. But you have every provision of this bill tattooed on your forehead. You will glow in the dark on this one." The remark was met with cheers and applause. Read More" You will glow in the dark," she repeated. " So don't walk the plank." The final vote was expected to be close, but many Republicans were jubilant over the bill's prospects earlier Thursday. In a morning meeting in the House basement, the theme song to " Rocky" played as members filed in. GOP 'giddy' as Obamacare repeal vote nears Rep. Daniel Webster described House Speaker Paul Ryan as almost "giddy." Ryan also addressed the House ahead of the vote. President Donald Trump tweeted during her speech that he is "watching Democrats trying to defend the 'you can keep you doctor, you can keep your plan & premiums will go down' Obama Care lie." I am watching the Democrats trying to defend the "you can keep you doctor, you can keep your plan & premiums will go down" Obama Care lie."— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 4, 2017 Republicans -- including Trump and Vice President Mike Pence -- have spent the last week meeting with representatives to secure the number of votes that were needed to move the bill to the Senate floor. CNN's MJ Lee contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/LL6kjkbZU2E/index.html
John Kasich on a 2020 run: Never say never John Kasich on a 2020 run: Never say never By Jennifer Hansler, CNN Updated 1624 GMT (0024 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. John Kasich speaks during a town hall-style campaign stop at the Crowne Plaza on April 19, 2016 in Annapolis, Maryland. The Axe Files, featuring David Axelrod, is a podcast distributed by CNN and produced at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics. ( CNN) John Kasich may not be planning to run for president again in 2020, but he's not ruling out the possibility. The two-term Ohio governor noted that his "inclination is to say (he'll) never run for anything again." However, he is maintaining a political organization, planning on forming a team, and won't be waiting on the results of the midterm elections to make up his mind. " You never want to say never to anything. You never know," Kasich told David Axelrod on " The Axe Files," a podcast from the University of Chicago Institute of Politics and CNN. Kasich said there is support for him to run again." What I have found as I travel around the country for this book or I just travel around period is that people come to me and many of them are just almost begging me to run again," he said. Read More Kasich sees some of this public desire for him to launch a third bid -- he was a candidate in 2000 as well as 2016 -- as a result of a polarized nation longing for a moderate." His supporters are rock solid but they're not a vast number, it's certainly not half the country," Kasich said in reference to President Donald Trump's supporters. " His people may want to take these strong positions, but these polls indicate that everybody would like to see people get along better." After dropping out of the 2016 race, Kasich was not shy about his lack of support for then-candidate Trump, even writing in Sen. John Mc Cain's name on the general election ballot. Looking back, he told Axelrod that there are still parts of Trump's victory that he doesn't comprehend. John Kasich on North Korea: ' Eradicate the leadership'" If I said some of the things he said, I would've been run out of Ohio," Kasich said. " I cannot explain it, I don't understand how people looked the other way and didn't care about some of these incendiary things that and the way that not only him but others behaved." Nonetheless, Kasich said he is behind Trump. " I'm going to be for him because he's President. I support presidents and I've always supported presidents but that doesn't mean I go along with them on everything," he said. As he finishes his term as governor, Kasich said he is focusing on having "an effective voice" -- and indicated it is something that may drive his decision to run for the White House." When you're talking about complicated issues like North Korea or you're talking about health care or you're talking about any of these things, you just don't want to talk. You want to know what you're talking about," Kasich said. " The question is -- and I've thought about this -- is can you be an important voice without holding public office?" he continued. " I think it's extremely difficult to maintain a voice if you're not holding an office."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/xgvwEpDsyM0/index.html
Donald Trump's big, bizarre religious day By Daniel Burke, CNN Religion Editor Updated 0231 GMT (1031 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump signs religious liberty executive order (16 Videos) Trump signs religious liberty executive order Trump: Don't worry, we'll build the wall How does US President Trump describe himself? Trump slams Warren during NRA speech Trump slams 'first 100 days' after embracing it Donald Trump on tax reform Trump's common speech habits as US President Trump meets with freed aid worker Mark Cuban questions Trump's competence Clinton slams Trump on LGBT rights Trump recognizes player who isn't there Trump in 2016: ' I don't have time' for golf Trump's approval rating plunges to new low Trump signs health care bill for veterans Trump congratulates military in Syria attack Tapper: ( CNN) It's hard to imagine President Donald Trump, a very rich man, envying the Little Sisters of the Poor, an But the President joked Thursday during a White House ceremony that the sisters have something he deeply desires: smart attorneys. " Do you mind if I use your lawyers?" Trump said with a grin, as a nun in a gray habit laughed. " I could use some good lawyers, too." The Little Sisters are represented by the Becket Fund, a nonprofit firm that focuses on religious liberty, who helped the nuns gain a key exemption from the Affordable Care Act. That case -- and religious freedom writ large -- is what brought together the nuns, the President, and a few dozen religious leaders in the Rose Garden on Thursday. The stated purpose was Trump's signing of an executive order, which he said would prevent the federal government from "bullying and even punishing Americans for following their religious beliefs." Read More Both liberals and conservative agree, however, that Trump's order accomplishes less than advertised. Robert George, a Princeton University professor and leading expert on religious liberty, called the executive order "meaningless" and "a betrayal." The religious liberty executive order is meaningless. No substantive protections for conscience. A betrayal. Ivanka and Jared won. We lost. Robert P. George (@ Mc Cormick Prof) May 4, 2017 Still, this President makes news in bunches, not bites, and Thursday was no exception. In addition to signing the executive order, Trump announced he would travel later this month to the Vatican, setting up his first face-to-face meeting with Pope Francis. He also said he will visit Saudi Arabia, a leading source of extremist Islamic ideology, where the President said he would "begin to construct a new foundation of cooperation" to combat terrorism. The trip will pose a series of diplomatic challenges for Trump, for whom the world of faith remains unfamiliar turf. Among the religious leaders in the Rose Garden on Thursday, Trump seemed to enjoy himself -- he joked that he prefers their company to Congress -- but it was a bit like watching a tourist stumble into the Sistine Chapel. Trump referred to two of the country's most powerful Catholics as "my cardinals." He mused that he'd be "out enjoying my life" instead of helping evangelicals if he had lost the election. And he accused HUD Secretary Ben Carson of flouting a law that only applies to clergy, which Trump should have known is not possible, since it was the focus of the executive order he signed just a few minutes later. Pulpit politics For weeks, rumors had swirled that the Trump administration was considering a sweeping executive order that would grant religious believers, schools and corporations extensive exemptions to federal laws they disagree with, from LGBT protections to reproductive rights. The 3-page executive order Trump signed on Thursday wasn't that -- not even close, leaving many conservative Christians looking like the boy who wanted a BB gun for Christmas and instead got a pair of socks. The Heritage Fund's Ryan Anderson, a proponent of strong legal protections for religious liberty, called the executive order "woefully inadequate." Today's executive order is woefully inadequate. What @real Donald Trump issued today is rather weak. @ Daily Signal— Ryan T. Anderson (@ Ryan TAnd) May 4, 2017 The ACLU, with whom social conservatives rarely agree, agreed, saying the executive order wasn't even worth a lawsuit. We thought we'd have to sue Trump today. But it turned out the order signing was an elaborate photo-op with no discernible policy outcome.— ACLU National (@ ACLU) May 4, 2017 The order's most controversial section directs the federal government not to take adverse action against any "individual, house or worship or other religious organization" that speaks about political issues from a moral perspective. Why is that important? Since 1954, when Congress passed the Johnson Amendment, religious groups and other nonprofits have been prohibited from participating "directly or indirectly" in political campaigns at risk of losing their tax exemptions. " Under this rule, if a pastor, priest or imam speaks about issues of public or political importance, they are threatened with the loss of their tax exempt status -- a crippling financial punishment," Trump said on Thursday. " Very, very unfair. But no longer." Trump had promised to "destroy" the Johnson Amendment after several of his key evangelical advisers, such as Liberty University President Jerry Falwell Jr., told him it threatens their free speech. In fact, the Johnson Amendment is rarely enforced. Since 2008, thousands of pastors have played chicken with the IRS by endorsing political candidates as part of a " Pulpit Freedom" protest. The IRS has blinked, investigating only one church and choosing not to punish it. Only one church has been censured by the IRS, in 1995, for taking out a full-page ad against Bill Clinton. In any case, Trump can't dump the Johnson Amendment. Only Congress or the courts can amend or overturn it. And most Americans -- including evangelicals -- don't want their pastors to endorse candidates for public office, according to multiple surveys. Several evangelical groups, including the Alliance Defending Freedom, which organizes the " Pulpit Freedom" protests, said Trump's religious freedom promises remain unfulfilled. " Though we appreciate the spirit of today's gesture," said Michael Farris, the group's CEO, "vague instructions to federal agencies simply leaves them wiggle room to ignore that gesture." The US Catholic Bishops, in their statement on Thursday, didn't even mention the Johnson Amendment. Instead, the bishops focused on brief language in Trump's order promising regulatory relief for groups like the Little Sisters of the Poor, which want exemptions from the Affordable Care Act's contraception mandate. They called the executive order a good beginning. The Pope vs. the populist You know it's a busy news day -- the House also voted to repeal and replace Obamacare -- when an announcement that two of the most powerful people on the planet would soon meet gets barely a blip of attention. The President said Thursday that he will finally meet Pope Francis later this month, part of a trip that will also take him to the homeland of two of the three Abrahamic faiths: Israel and Saudi Arabia. ( The Vatican visit will give Trump an Abrahamic Trifecta.) The Vatican later confirmed the meeting between the Pope and President, saying it is scheduled for May 24 at the Apostolic Palace. Trump's aim on the trip is to reach out across religions and countries to combat extremism, senior administration officials told CNN. But it's unclear how he will be received in at least two of his stops. Trump and Pope Francis famously feuded last year over the politician's proposal to build a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico. Christians, the Pope said, build bridges, not walls. Popes shouldn't mess with politics, Trump retorted. Both sides backed down. A Vatican spokesman said the Pope wasn't talking in particular about Trump. Trump said, " I don't like fighting with the Pope. I like his personality; I like what he represents." In recent months, though, Francis has been issuing increasingly dire warnings about the dangers of populism, remarks that some say place the Pope at the vanguard of the global anti- Trump resistance. Likewise, Trump's denigration of Islam and his travel ban on six Muslim-majority nations would seem to make him persona non grata in Saudi Arabia, though the country was not included on the list. The President and Saudi princes have bonded, however, over a shared suspicion of Iran, according to reports, and Trump "clarified" his views on Islam in a private meeting with Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House, a Saudi aide told Al- Jazeera. In his announcement on Thursday, Trump said he hopes, while in Saudi Arabia, "to construct a new foundation of cooperation and support with our Muslim allies to combat extremism, terrorism and violence." But Saudi Arabia seems a strange place for Trump to begin his outreach to the Muslim world. For decades, the country has been the chief exporter of Salafism, a puritanical strain of Islam that has inspired ISIS and other extremists. In 2011, Trump called Saudi Arabia "the world's biggest funder of terrorism."" Look, I'm not a big fan," he told NBC last year. By Thursday, Trump's tone had changed. He praised Saudi Arabia's role as the custodian of Islam's two holiest sites, in Mecca and Medina, adding another odd detail to an already bizarre day. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Fjb2DUVdFKY/index.html
Trump on health care bill: Premiums will come down Trump on health care bill: Premiums will come down By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House Producer Updated 1937 GMT (0337 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Trump celebrates with GOP at White House 02:28 Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump expressed confidence Thursday that the House-passed health care bill will succeed in the Senate. He said that plan would be improved before it reaches the upper chamber." This is a great plan. I actually think it will get even better. This is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. Make no mistake about it," Trump said. He said Americans would find insurance more affordable under the Republican plan. House Republicans pass bill to replace and repeal Obamacare" As far as I'm concerned, your premiums are going to come down," Trump said. Read More Trump declared Obamacare "essentially dead" and hailed the efforts of House Speaker Paul Ryan." It's dead, it's essentially dead," he said. " If we don't pay lots of ransom money over to the insurance companies, it would die." The repeal effort -- once thought dead -- helped bring the GOP together, Trump said." We've developed a bond," he said. " This has really brought the Republican Party together."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/tky01nLMOns/index.html
That other time President Trump got his Civil War facts all wrong That other time President Trump got his Civil War facts all wrong By Doug Criss, CNN Updated 1324 GMT (2124 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. A plaque that reads " The River of Blood" sits at the base of a flagpole between the 14th and 15th hole at the Trump National Golf Club . ( CNN) President Trump famously said the presidency was hard. Guess history is too. The President raised more than a few eyebrows over the weekend when he wondered, out loud, why the Civil War started. What would Andrew Jackson think of Donald Trump? Turns out the President's Civil War confusion dates back further than just a few days ago. A couple of years ago, Trump installed a monument to a Civil War battle that historians say never happened. The monument, first reported by The New York Times in 2015, is at the Trump National Golf Club in Potomac Falls, Virginia. It's a stone pedestal with a flagpole between the 14th and 15th hole. On the pedestal is a plaque that says " The River of Blood."" Many great American soldiers, both of the North and South, died at this spot. The casualties were so great that the water would turn red and thus became known as ' The River of Blood,' " reads the inscription. Trump's wacky history lessons continue Problem is, a Civil War battle didn't take place there. Read More" Yeah, there was a battle fought near there, but it wasn't there," local historian Rob Orrison told CNN. He grew up in the area, is a site manager for a historic courthouse in Virginia and is the vice president of the Virginia Association of Museums. Orrison said the Battle of Ball's Bluff was fought in the area in October 1861, but it was about 12 miles north of where the golf course now sits. Some bodies from the Battle of Ball's Bluff did float down the Potomac River, he said, but it didn't turn red, as the plaque says. Trump: Why could the Civil War not have 'been worked out?' The spot where the plaque is located on the Potomac was the site of a river crossing during the Civil War, Orrison said. Troops on both sides marched through this area during the entire war, and there were even a few skirmishes where bullets were fired." But there wasn't a lot of fighting that went on in that spot," he said. " We historians don't quantify that as a battle." Orrison explained that the National Park Service has a system set up to rank different battlefields and the few skirmishes that happened near where the marker sits "doesn't fall within their criteria" to be called a Civil War battle. He visited the golf course a few years ago with some other historians and came across it. He remembered that it seemed to be "embellished" a little bit.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/qcWMiN6iGBg/index.html
Ivanka Trump's new book gets poor reviews Ivanka Trump's new book gets reviews -- and they aren't good By Kate Bennett, CNN's COVER/ LINE Updated 2042 GMT (0442 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Critics pan Ivanka Trump's new book (16 Videos) Critics pan Ivanka Trump's new book Ivanka Trump: Defender-in- Chief Crowd reacts to Ivanka's defense of dad Germany's Merkel turns to Ivanka Fox host under fire for Ivanka Trump comment Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner blasted for WH roles Ivanka Trump faces boos, hisses on world stage Poll: Ivanka, Jared's WH roles inappropriate China approves trademarks for Ivanka Trump Ivanka Trump has a message for critics Ivanka Trump, Kushner benefiting from business Ivanka Trump will make WH job official Commentators battle over Ivanka's WH job' SNL' creates fragrance for Ivanka Trump Ivanka's White House role called into question Is Ivanka Trump's role more policy or PR? Story highlights Ivanka Trump released a book this week Reviewers have panned it Washington ( CNN) It's only been two days since its debut, but already reviews for Ivanka Trump's latest book, " Women Who Work: Redefining the Rules for Success," are in. They're not great. In fact, some are downright brutal. A sampling:" Witlessly derivative," said The New York Times' Jennifer Senior." A grab-bag of generic work-life advice," wrote Emily Peck of Huff Post." It is really vapid," is the opinion of Slate's Michelle Goldberg." Trump's lack of awareness, plus a habit of skimming from her sources, often results in spectacularly misapplied quotations," said NPR's Annalisa Quinn. It gets an average 1.2 stars on Barnesand Noble.com. Over on Amazon.com, there's no middle ground. People either love it or hate it. Thirty-nine percent give the book, which is a guide for working women, five out of five stars. Two percent give it four stars, one percent give it three stars, and 0% give it two stars -- however a whopping 58% give it one star, the lowest rating. Read More For her part, Trump is playing up the positive, posting on her Instagram page Thursday morning a video of herself dancing at home with her two youngest children, with a caption touting "little moments" and a link to an article about her book in Working Mother magazine. Her family is also rallying around her, posting up a storm of proud and complimentary messages, some with links to buy the book, on their own social media pages. I'm so proud of my big sister @ Ivanka Trump on the launch of her # Women Who Work Book! I can't wait to start reading it! 📖 A post shared by Tiffany Ariana Trump (@tiffanytrump) on May 2, 2017 at 7:15pm PDT Trump staffer Lynne Patton, who works in the White House as a senior adviser and director of public liaison, went the extra mile, posting a shot of herself and friends reading Trump's book in the lobby of the Trump International Hotel in Washington. With our NEW FAVORITE BOOK! # Women Who Work A post shared by 🇺🇸 lynnepatton (@lynnepatton) on May 3, 2017 at 4:59pm PDT Look who I spied in Atlanta airport today ✨ So happy to share @ivankatrump # Women Who Work Book Learn more at womanwhowork.com on how proceeds will benefit initiatives for women A post shared by Marla Maples (@itsmarlamaples) on May 3, 2017 at 5:46pm PDT Trump is donating profits and the remaining portion of her book advance to charities, including Boys & Girls Clubs of America and The National Urban League, via her Ivanka M. Trump Charitable Fund. Additionally, prior to the book's release, Trump said she would abstain from overt promotion due to ethics guidelines in her new role as special adviser to her father. In a statement on her Facebook page, Trump wrote:" In light of government ethics rules, I want to be clear that this book is a personal project. I wrote it at a different time in my life, from the perspective of an executive and an entrepreneur, and the manuscript was completed before the election last November. Out of an abundance of caution and to avoid the appearance of using my official role to promote the book, I will not publicize the book through a promotional tour or media appearances." The reviews may not matter -- Trump's last advice guide, 2010's " The Trump Card: Playing to Win in Work and Life," made it to The New York Times bestseller list.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/L4uP9miTKH8/index.html
The 7 Republican Senators to watch on the health care bill The 7 Republican Senators to watch on the health care bill Analysis by Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1400 GMT (2200 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump celebrates with GOP at White House (16 Videos) Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Sanford: I tried to read entire health bill Trump praises Australian universal health care Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Sanders: Thousands will die if bill passes Rep. Collins: I didn't read health care bill Schiff: Health care bill won't pass Senate Congressman tears up about daughter House passes bill to replace Obamacare Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Washington ( CNN) The American Health Care Act is out of the House. The action now moves to the Senate, where President Donald Trump's attempt to overhaul the health care system faces a far more perilous fate. The focus will be almost entirely on the Republican side as Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell tries to craft a bill that can win the votes of 50 of the 52 GOPers. ( It's hard to see -- at least right now -- any Democrat voting for any sort of health care bill.) Each one of those 52 is, obviously, important. But some are more important than others. Below is my list of the seven senators to watch, the people who are likely to not only be front and center on the bill over the next few weeks but could well hold its fate in their hands.1. Lamar(!) Alexander Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee speaks to reporters on Capitol Hill in 2013. Alexander is important for three reasons: He's the chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions ( HELP) Committee, he's from a state that would be heavily impacted by the changes made to the pre-existing conditions mandate in the House bill and he's someone well positioned, as a former member of party leadership, to bring warring factions within the GOP conference together. Read More" The Senate will now finish work on our bill, but will take the time to get it right," Alexander said in a statement released Thursday. And, as a smart GOP Senate insider pointed out to me, Republicans have been listening to Lamar on health care since the big 2010 meeting with then- President Obama at Blair House.2, 3, 4. Susan Collins/ Lisa Murkowski/ Rob Portman Senator snaps at reporter asking about an earlier version of the House health care bill Senator snaps at reporter asking about an earlier version of the House health care bill 01:04 Each of these less ideologically driven senators have already voiced concerns over the House bill, most notably its provision to freeze Medicaid expansion funds in 2020. Murkowski, in particular, offered a decidedly circumspect view of what the House passed Thursday. " I think you will see an effort coming out of the Senate that will be separate from what the House has done," she told the Fairbanks Daily News- Miner (amazing name!) on Thursday night. " Incorporating what aspects of the House bill remains to be seen." Another complicating factor: Collins is currently considering a run for governor in 2018. Maine, under Gov. Paul Le Page, rejected the federal Medicaid expansion and Le Page has vetoed attempts by the Democratic legislature to opt into the system.5. Ted Cruz From February's CNN Town Hall, here's Cruz and Sen. Bernie Sanders debating Obamacare in 90 seconds From February's CNN Town Hall, here's Cruz and Sen. Bernie Sanders debating Obamacare in 90 seconds 01:30 Remember that the Texas senator and runner-up in the 2016 presidential primary fight was the lead agitator in shutting the government down in 2013 over funding for Obamacare. This could be a return engagement for the still-ambitious Cruz, who may see an opportunity to further bolster his national credentials by positioning himself as the uncompromising voice of the base on the bill. Is full repeal -- a total non-starter for a handful of Cruz's Republican colleagues -- the only path to success in his mind? " We've been promising the voters we'd repeal Obamacare for seven years, and I think if we fail to deliver on that, I think, the consequences would be catastrophic," Cruz told a San Antonio radio station Thursday.6. Dean Heller  Crowd angrily chants 'yes or no' at senator Crowd angrily chants 'yes or no' at senator 01:24 Heller is the only Republican Senator up for re-election in 2018 in a state -- Nevada -- that Hillary Clinton won in 2016. That means protecting him from any career-killing votes will be a priority for Mc Connell. " I will not support it in its current form in the Senate, and am confident that what the Senate considers and approves will be different from the House bill," Heller said of the bill after the House vote. He expressed significant concern with the freezing of Medicaid funds and the abolishing of the pre-existing conditions mandate.7. Rand Paul Sen. Paul proposes insurance through the NRASen. Paul proposes insurance through the NRA 01:46 Paul, like Cruz, made a national name for himself with his opposition to the ACA. And he's shown a bit of a penchant for grandstanding already this year when he waited outside the closed doors of the room where House Republicans were writing the bill. Paul's position is made more complicated by his alliance with his home state colleague Mc Connell. How far is Paul willing to push? And how much influence -- if any -- does Mc Connell have over him?
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/5eiba3K5faA/index.html
Republicans just won a health care battle. Winning the war is going to be much tougher. Republicans just won a health care battle. Winning the war is going to be much tougher. By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1949 GMT (0349 HKT) May 4, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. House passes bill to replace Obamacare House passes bill to replace Obamacare 01:04 Story highlights Republicans should be wary of enjoying their success too much The broader war rages on -- and the odds aren't exactly in Republicans favor ( CNN) House Republicans cobbled together 217 "yes" votes Thursday for a health care plan aimed at repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, an accomplishment that looked unlikely as recently as 48 hours ago. That's a victory worth celebrating for a party that has been defined by its inability to rally its ideologically diverse caucus behind much of anything since re-taking control of the House in the 2010 election. House Speaker Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy and Majority Whip Steve Scalise deserve real credit, as does President Donald Trump, who actively worked on-the-fence members over the last few days. But Republicans should be wary of enjoying their success too much -- the American Health Care Act faces a decidedly uncertain legislative future in the Senate and its political future is even more murky. You might not have been able to tell from the weeks of deal-making and uncertainty but what happened on the House floor Thursday was the easy part. After all, Republicans control 238 seats in the House and only needed 216 to pass this legislation. In a chamber built around the idea of majority rule, the math and political calculation isn't all that complicated. Give the people who need passes for political or policy reasons passes and lean on everyone else to be a team player. That battle is now won. But the broader war rages on -- and the odds aren't exactly in Republicans' favor. Read More The 7 Republican Senators to watch on the health care bill The immediate challenge is the Senate, where Republicans hold a narrower majority than in the House -- they control 52 seats -- and where their members tend to be less conservative, on average, than in the House. Several Republican senators have already voiced concerns about the elimination of the pre-existing conditions mandate and the freezing of Medicaid expansion tat were both included in the House bill. The legislation would also strip out most funding in the ACA for addiction treatment, an issue that will be a larger sticking point in the Senate than it was in the House. While it's not clear what changes Senate Republicans will make to the AHCA that just passed the Senate, what is clear is that changes will be made. So, even if Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell is able to muscle through a piece of health care legislation, that bill would not be a replica of the House version -- meaning that it would have to go to a conference committee to resolve the differences between the two. ( Conference committee members are appointed by their respective leaders in the House and Senate.) If the conference committee can agree on a compromise bill, that would then have to be voted on in the House and Senate -- again. And, we'd likely be back to where we spent the last few weeks -- Republicans trying to grind out 216 votes to get it passed. That's the how-the-bill-becomes-a-law challenge that still awaits the health care bill. The political hurdles may be even more daunting. GOP gov: House health care bill needs work Start here: The ACA is more popular today than it has been in years; an April Kaiser Family Foundation poll showed 48% of people approve of the law while 41% disapprove. That's a major reversal for a law that spent most of the time since President Barack Obama signed it with a majority of Americans opposed to it. Then consider the fact that one of the most popular provisions in Obamacare -- patients cannot be discriminated against for pre-existing conditions -- has been stripped out of the House version of the health care bill. If the mandate is dead in the final law -- assuming there is a final law -- that could cause major problems for Republicans not only in swing seats and states but also within the Republican base. As I noted earlier, the 11 states with the highest percentage of people under 65 years old with pre-existing conditions are all states Trump won in 2016. The House also passed the bill without a score from the Congressional Budget Office, meaning that they neither knew a) how many people it would (and wouldn't) cover nor b) how much it would cost. While the Senate won't be able to vote on the measure until it is scored, it's possible that House members could lose re-election on the basis, solely, of the fact they cast a blind "yes" for legislation about which they knew very little. Some of the future politics is difficult to forecast because the bill's future is so uncertain. But Democrats are convinced that the GOP has just handed them a massive issue that will be a critical piece of their push to retake the House majority next November. House Republicans deserve credit for finally getting a health care bill through. But their work is far from done. In fact, it's only just beginning.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Z7Zzox2Yvf4/index.html
Donald Trump aims for high drama on first foreign swing Trump aims for high drama on first foreign swing By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House Producer Updated 1723 GMT (0123 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. President Trump makes first overseas trip (15 Videos) President Trump makes first overseas trip Graham: Kim makes Assad look like a choir boy Mc Master backpedals on South Korea Trump: NATO no longer obsolete Watch Trump's stunning U-turns on key issues Trump: Soften my stance on China? Who, me? Trump: ' Armada' heading toward North Korea Trump misspeaks, says US bombed Iraq Trump: US 'not going into Syria' Senator says Assad sent tough message to Trump Trump and China: What's at stake? Donald Trump to NATO countries: Pay up NATO chief brushes off past Trump criticism Trump: My attitude on Assad has changed Trump reveals foreign policy stance Story highlights The trip to Saudi Arabia, Israel and the Vatican is a splashy debut The tour is designed as a symbolic show of resolve to top US allies Washington ( CNN) For a showman president who has come to relish the made-for- TV aspects of his job, perhaps it is no surprise that Donald Trump's first foreign outing will not be to Canada. Skipping a low-key stop in the United States' low-key northerly neighbor -- a traditional dry run on foreign travel for a new president -- Trump will instead touch down in the capitals of three major world religions, a dramatic in-person entry into the fraught intersection of faith, politics and national security. The trip to Saudi Arabia, Israel and the Vatican is a splashy debut for a president who has, until now, largely avoided major trips outside of Washington. He's spent most of his time away from the White House at his private estate in Florida. When he arrives in the Middle East toward the end of May, he'll be traveling abroad later in his presidency than any commander in chief since Lyndon B. Johnson, who waited more than 10 months after President John F. Kennedy was killed to travel abroad. After the Vatican, Trump will make stops in Brussels and Sicily for NATO and G-7 meetings. Those stops were announced earlier this year. Read More Effort to counter radicalism According to Trump's aides, the trip is designed as a symbolic show of resolve to top US allies, whom the Trump administration hopes will renew their efforts to combat radicalism and intolerance around the world. But people familiar with the trip's planning said it's also meant to demonstrate a new era of American foreign policy in high-octane fashion. Revealing the trip during a Rose Garden ceremony Thursday for the National Day of Prayer, Trump deemed it a "major and historic announcement."" Someone clearly saw the Vatican, Israel and Saudi Arabia as a broad stage where the President could demonstrate a certain degree of unity and ecumenism and go to places where he could be guaranteed a high degree of symbolism when it came to his first presidential trip," said Aaron David Miller, a senior fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars." The trip provides a dramatic stage on which to act out his presidential role," Miller added. The first stop in Saudi Arabia was designed specifically to rebut perceptions that Trump is anti- Muslim, according to a person who helped plan the stop. The Islamic world has been rattled by some of Trump's actions, including signing an executive order barring entry to citizens of certain Muslim-majority nations and vowing during the campaign to end all Muslim immigration into the US." We thought that was very important because obviously people have tried to portray the President in a certain way," said a senior administration official. " But I think that what he wants to do is solve the same problem that a lot of the leaders in the Islamic world want to do." Speaking Thursday, Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al- Jubeir said he believed the trip will help rebut impressions that Trump is anti- Islam." It's a clear and powerful message that the US harbors no ill will toward the Arab and Muslim world," he said. " It also lays to rest the notion that America is anti- Muslim." Trump's stops in Riyadh, Jerusalem, Rome, Brussels and Sicily are not set to be long -- in some cases, he expects to spend only a night, according to officials who are planning the trip. But at each stop, Trump is hoping to demonstrate his faith in traditional US allies that his administration claims were slighted by the previous administration. Contrast with Obama President Barack Obama skipped a visit to Israel during his first trip to the Middle East in 2009, an opening slight in what became a sour relationship during his tenure in office. Saudi Arabia, along with other Arab Gulf nations, then felt neglected when Obama brokered a deal with Iran over its nuclear weapons, leading to fears the US was realigning its interests in the region." All the conversations we've had with all the leaders around the world show that there is a lot of frustration with how things have been done to date, and I think he's driven by common sense, and he's driven by a real practical approach to try to get things done," said a senior administration official. President Barack Obama's first stop abroad was in Canada, and every US president since Jimmy Carter has made that or Mexico his inaugural foreign destination. The stops reaffirmed what have traditionally been close cross-border ties in North America -- relationships that have grown tense under Trump amid trade disagreements and a dispute over his proposed border wall with Mexico. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau invited Trump to visit during a phone conversation soon after Trump was elected in November. Trump, at this stage, hasn't accepted, though a person close to Trudeau said he doesn't feel snubbed. People who helped plan past presidents' foreign trips said a jaunt across the border also provided new White House aides a relatively easy trip to work out the logistical kinks of moving a president into a foreign country. Trump's approach is markedly different, and could present pitfalls. Trump has not yet named a chief of protocol -- an ambassador-level position that assists in working out detailing plans with a foreign government before a President travels abroad. In countries like Saudi Arabia and Israel -- each with distinct religious and political sensitivities -- matters of protocol can become essential in how a trip is perceived. Even if Trump's hosts are eager to execute a gaffe-free visit, Trump himself will need at least some preparation to avoid a cultural miscue." I don't think there are any traps that will be set," Miller said. " The question is whether he generates them on his own. And gets out of his own way. And there's no way to predict that. As carefully orchestrated and choreographed as these trips may be, there's always the possibility of a stumble or an inappropriate remark." Past presidents have found that dealings with the tradition-bound Saudis can sometimes prove awkward. Photos of President George W. Bush holding hands with then- Crown Prince Abdullah in 2005 led to accusations he was too close to the oil-rich kingdom. Obama faced claims he was overly deferential after he appeared to bow to Abdullah -- who by then was King -- during a summit meeting in London in 2009. Trump's maiden voyage overseas will look different than Obama's international forays for other reasons as well. They aren't likely to feature the types of sweeping addresses that Obama delivered regularly abroad. Nor are they expected to feature the types of cultural stops that Obama relished during his foreign swings. Short stays in each place The in-and-out itinerary hews closely with Trump's preferred style of travel as chief executive of his real estate business, when he would fly his private jet abroad for business meetings but rarely linger for long. A person who traveled with Trump during his tenure atop the Trump Organization in the 1990s described a businessman not particularly enthralled with foreign travel: He did not easily adjust to time-zone changes and was regularly jetlagged, the official said. He steered clear of local cuisine. And the customs of foreign businessmen -- particularly in Asia, where deals are regularly sealed over a night of drinking -- sometimes irked the teetotaler Trump. For a president and his aides, foreign travel can be a particularly grueling slog. Meetings regularly begin as soon as Air Force One touches down in a far-flung time zone, leaving little time for a commander in chief to adjust to a new setting, or clock. Visits in foreign capitals often involve state dinners that extend late into the evening followed by early talks the next day. Trump's ambitious itinerary for his first trip -- five stops in a little more than a week -- is also bound to be taxing. But in the minds of White House officials, the grind is worth it in order to properly introduce Trump to a world that's still largely skeptical of his presidency.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/W8GubUen8bY/index.html
These 20 Republicans are in worse shape today because of their health care votes These 20 Republicans are in worse shape today because of their health care votes By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1651 GMT (0051 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote (10 Videos) Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Congressman tears up about daughter Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Jimmy Kimmel's personal story gets political Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care ( CNN) Less than 24 hours after they narrowly passed the American Health Care Act, 20 Republican House members are already feeling the negative political effects of that vote. The Cook Political Report, a non-partisan campaign handicapping service (and my first employer in Washington!), changed the ratings on 20 GOP-held districts Friday morning -- all of them moving in Democrats' favor in advance of the 2018 midterm election. A look at the 20 Republican seats that got more vulnerable after the AHCA vote Wrote Cook's House editor David Wasserman of the changes:" For several dozen Republicans, adding support for the AHCA to their voting record is an unequivocal political risk. And, several of the 20 Republicans who voted against AHCA could end up being blamed anyway, much as 17 of the 30 Democrats who took a pass on the ACA and then ran for reelection ended up losing in 2010. For others, tough votes could make the prospect of retirement more appealing." The majority of the 20 members made more vulnerable in this latest round of Cook Report ratings represent districts that Hillary Clinton carried in the 2016 election. In fact, as Wasserman noted, 14 of the 23 Republicans who represent Clinton districts voted for the bill. Read More Two of the 20 changes affected members who actually opposed the AHCA: Leonard Lance of New Jersey and Mike Coffman of Colorado. Of Coffman, Wasserman wrote: " Coffman ended up voting against the AHCA, but his hesitation to announce his position likely won't assuage voters who want to send a message to President Trump next year." Think about the changes the Cook Report made this way: To win back the House majority, Democrats need to gain 24 GOP seats. Twenty Republican seats just moved toward Democrats -- in less than a day and with a single congressional vote. That's a big deal. A caveat worth noting from Wasserman: " For these Republicans, time is still on their side and healthcare reform can't be disposed of soon enough. There are still 18 months before the 2018 election, whereas House Democrats eked out final passage of the ACA less than eight months before the 2010 midterms. These Republicans can't afford a year-long Senate slog." Republicans then have to hope healthcare is totally passed and signed by President Trump by, say the end of this year. Knowing how slowly the Senate moves -- and the policy and political complexities in the bill -- that doesn't seem terribly likely to me.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/1rMUdCDCRW4/index.html
Republicans defend having no women in health care group Republicans defend having no women in health care group By Dana Bash, Lauren Fox and Ted Barrett, CNN Updated 2129 GMT (0529 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Cassidy: Health bill should pass Kimmel test Cassidy: Health bill should pass Kimmel test 01:12 Story highlights13 men make up the group of GOP senators who will craft the Senate health care bill The House passed the legislation Thursday Washington ( CNN) Just hours after House Republicans managed to pass a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, the Senate is signaling it will write its own proposal -- announcing a group of 13 Republican members who will be responsible for crafting the Senate's plan. All are male. The 7 Republican Senators to watch on the health care bill Senators in the group include Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, Health and Education Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander and conservatives Ted Cruz and Mike Lee. A GOP aide defended the makeup of the group." We have no interest in playing the games of identity politics, that's not what this is about; it's about getting a job done," the aide said. " We'll work with any member of any background who wants to pass a health reform bill that will reduce premiums and take away the burdens that Obamacare inflicted. Read More" To reduce this to gender, race or geography misses the more important point of the diverse segments of the conference the group represents on policy -- from members who support Medicaid expansion, to those opposed to it, to those who have called for long term full repeal," the aide added. The announcement of the health care working group is yet another signal that the bill passed out of the House is merely a starting point for Senate Republicans, who have been saying for months that they had serious concerns about the House's efforts to repeal Obamacare ranging from how the House bill dealt with Medicaid to how it handled people with pre-existing conditions. About that Rose Garden health care photo with all the white guys.... Even as the legislation was passing on the House floor, Senate Republicans were admonishing the House's efforts. " A bill -- finalized yesterday, has not been scored, amendments not allowed, and 3 hours final debate -- should be viewed with caution," tweeted South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham. Here are the group of 13 Republicans who will work to build the Senate's bill: Members of Senate leadership Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell of Kentucky Sen. John Cornyn of Texas Sen. John Thune of South Dakota Sen. John Barrasso of Wyoming Committee chairmen HELP Chairman Lamar Alexander of Tennessee Budget Chairman Mike Enzi of Wyoming Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch of Utah Conservatives Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas Sen. Mike Lee of Utah Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas Moderate-leaning Sen. Cory Gardner of Colorado Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania This story has been updated.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/HcIH41FxJBo/index.html
Trump: Bedminster stay saves money Trump: Bedminster stay saves money By Jennifer Hansler, CNN Updated 0006 GMT (0806 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. US President Donald Trump waves as he boards Air Force One prior to departing from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland, April 18, as he travels to Wisconsin. Story highlights Donald Trump is staying at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey He claimed this was more cost-efficient than staying in New York City ( CNN) President Donald Trump defended himself Saturday against criticisms of his stay at his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, this weekend, saying it is saving the country money." The reason I am staying in Bedminster, N. J., a beautiful community, is that staying in NYC is much more expensive and disruptive," the President tweeted. Trump returned to Manhattan Thursday night for the first time in his presidency to meet with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, who joined the President to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea aboard the USS Intrepid, the aircraft carrier-turned-museum parked along Manhattan's West Side. The reason I am staying in Bedminster, N. J., a beautiful community, is that staying in NYC is much more expensive and disruptive. Meetings!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 6, 2017 But rather than staying Trump Tower just several blocks east, he is spending the weekend at Trump National Golf Club, about an hour away from the Big Apple. Trump initially defended the move in a tweet on Friday morning: " Rather than causing a big disruption in N. Y. C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N. J. this weekend. Also saves country money!" Read More Rather than causing a big disruption in N. Y. C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N. J. this weekend. Also saves country money!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 5, 2017 And the White House backed up the President's assertion later in the day." The bottom line is the President is the President no matter where he goes," White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in response to a question about Trump's tweet. " And he doesn't get to control the level of costs in security that may come along with that." This is the 14th consecutive weekend that the President has visited a Trump-owned property since taking office and the eighth weekend he has spent away from the nation's capital. Trump goes home for a New York minute Critics have decried the costs incurred by these frequent trips: Trump's travel to his private club in Mar-a- Lago, Florida, is estimated to have cost more than $21 million dollars in his first 80 days in office. The latest bipartisan spending bill includes $60 million to help reimburse local governments for what they pay to protect the President during his visits. CNN's Dan Merica, Jeff Zeleny and Julia Horowitz contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/UixoCj2z-RI/index.html
EPA's Pruitt recuses himself from environmental lawsuits EPA's Pruitt recuses himself from environmental lawsuits By Rene Marsh and Miranda Green, CNN Updated 0002 GMT (0802 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. EPA Chief denies carbon is a pollutant EPA Chief denies carbon is a pollutant 04:17 Story highlights An official told CNN on Saturday that Pruitt is recusing himself only from litigation, not regulations EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is recusing himself from 12 lawsuits Washington ( CNN) EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is recusing himself from lawsuits he was previously involved in as attorney general of Oklahoma, including litigation over the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and Waters of the United States rule. An official told CNN on Saturday that Pruitt is recusing himself only from litigation, not regulations." I am profoundly committed to carrying out my ethical responsibilities," Pruitt said in the statement. " While I have recused myself from making decisions on specific cases, it is my duty and privilege as the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to actively engage in rulemaking." Pruitt said his duties will continue to include pursuing President Donald Trump's regulatory agenda "by reviewing, revising or rescinding rules and regulations created by the previous administration that cause undue or unnecessary stress on American jobs or the economy." Pruitt formally recused himself in an agency memorandum Thursday, saying he will not participate in 12 lawsuits, all but one of which were filed against the EPA. Read More The EPA statement said Pruitt will continue to consult with the agency's ethics counsel to ensure there is no question of impropriety in how it deals with litigation to which Pruitt had been a party as Oklahoma's attorney general. Pruitt wrote in the agency memorandum that he will recuse himself from matters in which he has a financial interest or a personal business relationship and also said he has obligations outlined by the Oklahoma state bar and an ethics pledge he signed with the administration. After speaking with the Office of General Counsel's ethics personnel, Pruitt said he will take a one-year "cooling off period" from the time of leaving state office and several other positions and will not participate in matters involving the state of Oklahoma, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Windows Ministry Inc., and the Rule of Law Defense Fund, which calls itself a "public policy organization for issues relevant to the nation's Republican attorneys general."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/yjkQ7lrClvY/index.html
Trump transition officials warned Flynn about Russia communications Trump transition officials warned Flynn about Russia communications By Jim Acosta, Jeff Zeleny and Sophie Tatum, CNN Updated 2308 GMT (0708 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. National Security Adviser Michael Flynn sits before U. S. President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe hold a joint press conference at the White House on February 10, 2017 in Washington, DC. Story highlights Members of Trump's transition team alerted Flynn in November that any conversations with Kislayk were most likely being monitored Former acting Attorney General  Sally Yates is expected to testify before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee Monday about her warnings to the White House on Flynn Washington ( CNN) Donald Trump's transition team warned former national security adviser Michael Flynn about the risks of communicating with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, a former US official has confirmed to CNN. Members of Trump's transition team alerted Flynn in November that any conversations with Kislayk were most likely being monitored, a warning that took place weeks before the two discussed US sanctions on Russia by phone, according to The Washington Post, which first reported the development. The head of Trump's national security transition team, Marshall Billingslea, requested Obama administration officials provide a classified CIA profile on Kislyak to show to Flynn out of concern that he didn't completely appreciate the Russian ambassador's motives, a source close to Billingslea confirmed to CNN. Billingslea, a former Pentagon official under George W. Bush, knew at the time that the retired Army lieutenant general would talk with Kislyak soon, the source said. Several former Trump transition officials expressed doubt about the assertion that the transition team warned Flynn about talking to the Russian ambassador. Read More" Sounds like a bit of revisionist history to me," one of those officials said. " I bet everyone interviewed by the FBI (said) they warned against the Russians." The development comes as former acting Attorney General  Sally Yates prepares to testify before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee Monday that she gave a forceful warning to the White House that Flynn had not been truthful in public and private statements denying that he and Kislyak discussed sanctions on Russia, according to sources familiar with her account. White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters in mid- February, however, that Yates had simply "wanted to give a 'heads-up' to us on some comments that may have seemed in conflict with what he ( Flynn) had sent the vice president." In her warning, Yates told the administration that Flynn's conversations with Kislyak and his subsequent statements denying he spoke about the sanctions could make him vulnerable to blackmail by Russian officials, the sources said. Flynn was forced to step down as national security adviser just weeks after President Donald Trump took office after reports surfaced that Flynn misled the administration about his conversations with the Russian ambassador. " I inadvertently briefed the Vice President- Elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador," Flynn wrote in February, according to a copy of his resignation letter obtained by CNN. " I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology." CNN's Jeff Zeleny, Jim Sciutto, Manu Raju and Pamela Brown contributed to this report. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/7pPSHMNe9R0/index.html
The Kushner family hopes to lure investments from wealthy business owners in China with the promise of American visas. Nicole Kushner Meyer, the sister of White House adviser and President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, spoke at an event in Beijing on Saturday. She was marketing a Kushner-owned property in New Jersey -- invest in the development and get into the United States on a so-called EB-5 visa. The EB-5 visa allows immigrants a path to a green card if they invest more than $500,000 in a project that creates jobs in the United States. An ad for the event, held at a Ritz- Carlton hotel, said " Invest $500,000 and immigrate to the United States." The EB-5 visa has been used by the Trump and Kushner family businesses. Foreigners, particularly wealthy Chinese nationals, have used the EB-5 program as a ticket into the states. And that promise has helped attract foreign investments for U. S. real estate projects. President Trump has taken an anti-immigration stance and vowed to severely tighten the use of work visas. The EB-5 program has come under fire by members of Congress on both sides of the aisle. On Saturday, potential investors in the Kushner project were told they should act quickly because possible policy changes to the EB-5 program might raise the required minimum investment. Nicole Kushner Meyer also told the crowd how her grandfather immigrated to the United States and built a business from the ground up. And she mentioned Jared's new position in the White House -- though there were no overt references to President Trump. " In 2008, my brother Jared Kushner joined the family company as CEO, and recently moved to Washington to join the administration," she said. Jared Kushner serves as an influential senior adviser to the president. Trump has at various times said he would lead or play a key role in many policy areas from foreign affairs to business innovation. The event was meant to draw investors for 1 Journal Square, a $976.4 million residential and commercial project underway in New Jersey. The company says about 15% of it will be funded through the EB-5 program. The Beijing event, which was organized by Chinese immigration agency Qiaowai, was open to the public. Reporters from the Washington Post and the New York Times attended but said they were later asked to leave. Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S& P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/QPeg1sWElaw/index.html
First on CNN: White House curator to retire First on CNN: White House curator to retire By Kate Andersen Brower and Betsy Klein, CNN Updated 1750 GMT (0150 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. WASHINGTON - MAY 31: The exterior view of the south side of the White House is seen May 31, 2005 in Washington, DC. Vanity Fair Magazine reported that former FBI official W. Mark Felt claimed himself was ? Deep Throat,? the anonymous source who provided information to Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward?s famous Watergate investigation report that led to the former President Richard Nixon's resignation. ( Photo by Alex Wong/ Getty Images) Story highlights William G. Allman is the White House's chief curator He will retire after nearly 40 years ( CNN) White House curator William G. Allman has decided to retire, according to two people familiar with his decision. After a career that spanned more than 40 years, Allman's departure will leave another key position open on the residence staff on the heels of Chief Usher Angella Reid's departure Friday. Residence staff positions are non-political. The office of the curator was created under first lady Jacqueline Kennedy. The curator works closely with the White House interior decorator and the Committee for the Preservation of the White House." It is a museum, but it's also the White House, and so it's a working house," Allman told The New York Times in 2011. " There are times when you run screaming, telling somebody, ' You can't put those hot television lights up against the portrait of Washington!' You worry about someone spilling a drink on something. Sometimes somebody breaks a piece of furniture. But it's the nature of it. It's a place where people actually live." Allman worked alongside a team of curators who will continue that work and served as the chief curator since 2002. He was one of the first members of residence staff to meet Melania Trump; he gave her a tour when she came to visit with Michelle Obama days after the election, Obama White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters. Read More" He had a full career and contributed a great deal," said one of the sources with knowledge of the situation." I hope that they (the Trumps) will give it a lot of thought and consider the history of the house," the source said, adding that there are several curators who worked for Allman who will be able to fill the position if necessary. Allman could not be reached for comment, and the White House did not respond to CNN's request for comment. In February, Melania Trump named New York-based designer Tham Kannalikham to decorate her family's private living quarters at the White House. Trump, who is living in New York through the conclusion of the school year with son Barron, 11, is expected to make her move to Washington over the summer, and Kannalikham has been working to make the White House a home for the first family. That process includes working within strict décor guidelines and choosing historical pieces from a warehouse in Maryland to furnish the home. " Mrs. Trump has a deep appreciation for the historical aspects of the White House, and with Tham's traditional design and expertise, they are focusing on a seamless integration of elegance and comfort into where the President, the first lady, and Barron will be spending their family time and calling their home," Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, acting senior adviser to the first lady, told Women's Wear Daily when Kannalikham was hired. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/mSAXMjjE_MI/index.html
Defense Department identifies Navy SEAL killed in Somalia Defense Department identifies Navy SEAL killed in Somalia By Barbara Starr and Miranda Green, CNN Updated 1627 GMT (0027 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. US Navy SEAL killed in Somalia is identified US Navy SEAL killed in Somalia is identified 01:57 Story highlights DOD identifies slain Navy SEAL as Kyle Milliken The unit came under small-arms fire during an operation in Somalia Washington ( CNN) A Navy SEAL who was killed in an operation against terrorist group al- Shabaab in Somalia earlier this week has been identified by the Department of Defense as Kyle Milliken, 38, of Falmouth, Maine.. Milliken, a senior chief special warfare operator, was killed Thursday in a remote area of Somalia 40 miles west of Mogadishu when he and other troops came under small-arms fire. Milliken was a member of SEAL Team Six, a defense official confirmed to CNN. The elite special operations unit, which led the raid that killed Osama bin Laden, was on a scheduled deployment to East Africa for training and carrying out counterterrorism missions. The target in Somalia was a local al- Shabaab leader who had been involved in planning attacks against facilities used by US and African forces in Somalia. Milliken was on a mission advising Somali National Army forces." Senior Chief Kyle Milliken embodied the warrior spirit and toughness infused in our very best Navy SEALs," Rear Adm. Timothy Szymanski, commander of the Naval Special Warfare Command, said in a statement. " We grieve his death, but we celebrate his life and many accomplishments. He is irreplaceable as a husband, father, son, friend and teammate -- and our thoughts and prayers go out to his family and teammates." Read More Two other military service members were wounded in the operation, including an interpreter who was also a US citizen, a US defense official told CNN. A US military official confirmed that this is the first US service member killed in action in Somalia since 1993, when two UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters were shot down and 18 American soldiers were killed in the Battle for Mogadishu. The US troops were part of a US military program to advise and assist Somali ground forces. The mission was not part of the stepped-up effort in Somalia to conduct airstrikes and ground missions against terror targets. CNN's Ryan Browne contributed to this report
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/voipdqpqrlI/index.html
State of play: Becoming an ambassador takes time -- and paperwork By Laura Koran Updated 1310 GMT (2110 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights The Trump administration might be moving slower than others, but the pace of filling ambassadorships is generally tedious and time-consuming The confirmation process has bedeviled all modern presidents, including Trump's recent predecessors Washington ( CNN) The slow pace of nominations in Rex Tillerson's State Department is making what a typically a chaotic transition process even more drawn out. As the Trump administration works to fill nearly 100 senior State Department positions that need Senate confirmation, including over 60 ambassadorships, officials are confronting the enormity of that challenge and navigating a sea of red tape to ensure their policies are well-represented abroad. Confirming a US ambassador has never been easy, and the Trump administration might be moving slower than others -- but the pace is generally a tedious and time-consuming one. Regardless of who's running the State Department, to become an ambassador requires expertise, connections, patience and a willingness to wade through "half a truckload of paper," according to one who knows. Ronald Neumann, now president of the American Academy of Diplomacy, who went through the nominating process three times for ambassadorial posts. Read More The former Foreign Service officer said the length of the process can vary tremendously, and is especially challenging in the first year of a new administration. RELATED: State of play: Open jobs, uncertainty for diplomatic corps" If the decision is made by the State Department, in coordination with the White House, to nominate you for an ambassadorship, the next thing that happens is you get about a half a truckload of paper," he noted. That goes for both career State Department officials elevated to ambassadorships and political appointees chosen for their resumes or connections to the White House. There are financial disclosure forms, questionnaires from senators, background documents, security forms and more." It's a lot of paper," said Neumann. " It's not something you do for fun." Government lawyers then pour over the paperwork, which can be a time-consuming process for candidates with complicated business interests and investments or extensive foreign ties. If the White House decides to move forward with a nomination after the rigorous review, they turn to the government of the host country for approval -- a process called "agrément." If the foreign government objects to a potential nominee -- which is rare -- the process ends then and there." At this point, nothing has normally been made public," said Neumann. " All that gets done, and then they do the official nomination process, and then you start waiting for a senate confirmation." First, the nominee has a hearing in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. If the committee members approve of the nomination, it goes to the full Senate for a vote. And because of Senate rules, any senator can hold up any nomination for any reason." I was nominated twice (as ambassador to) Bahrain because the first time was in the end of the Clinton administration, and they didn't get around to (holding a) hearing (for) me for various reasons and the nomination expired" when Clinton left office, he recounted. " So I had to wait to be re-nominated by the Bush administration."" For several months nothing happened," he said. But that all changed on September 11, 2001, when the al Qaeda terror attacks put a spotlight on US policy in the Middle East." I got a call at noon that my hearing was at 5:30, and by 6:30 I was voted out of the committee, and I was voted off the floor the next day," he said. " So (the process) can be very slow and then all of a sudden jerk into high gear." The confirmation process has bedeviled all modern presidents, including Trump's recent predecessors, who also suffered long delays in getting their nominees named and confirmed. President Barack Obama had nominated only four country-based or international organization-based ambassadors by this stage of his first term, putting him behind Trump, who has formally nominated five, and had two -- UN Ambassador Nikki Haley and Ambassador to Israel David Friedman -- confirmed. George W. Bush had nominated just two by this date in 2001. But Obama and Bush far outpaced Trump in nominating senior officials to positions at the State Department headquarters in Washington. By this point in his first term, Bush had nominated four undersecretaries, eight assistant secretaries, a USAID administrator and other key personnel, including the director general of the Foreign Service, who manages the department staff, and the director of policy planning. Obama at this same date had nominated one undersecretary and eight assistant secretaries. Both had deputy secretaries confirmed and in place by the end of March. Trump nominated John Sullivan as deputy secretary in April, but has yet to name any people to these next critical tiers of the department. Sullivan is still waiting for his hearing. As State Department spokesman Mark Toner said recently, the nomination process is under way and that "with any new administration, it takes time."

http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/fqEV4hQ6sNk/index.html Mark Green withdraws his nomination for Army secretary Mark Green withdraws his nomination for Army secretary By Andrew Kaczynski, Ryan Browne and Dan Merica, CNN Updated 0123 GMT (0923 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Another Trump Army secretary pick drops out Another Trump Army secretary pick drops out 01:21 Story highlights The President's first pick for Army secretary, billionaire Vincent Viola, withdrew over business complications Philip Bilden, Trump's pick to be Navy secretary, also withdrew his name ( CNN) President Donald Trump's choice for Army secretary announced Friday that he is withdrawing his name from consideration." It is with deep regret today I am withdrawing my nomination to be the Secretary of the Army," Mark Green said in a statement. The decision by Green, Trump's second pick for the post, came after his nomination ran into trouble following a backlash after past controversial statements on LGBT issues, Islam and evolution were revealed. Green explained his decision to pull out from a military leadership position in the wake of this controversy." To meet these challenges, there should be no distractions. And unfortunately due to false and misleading attacks against me, this nomination has become a distraction," he said in his statement. Read More" Tragically, my life of public service and my Christian beliefs have been mischaracterized and attacked by a few on the other side of the aisle for political gain," he continued. " While these false attacks have no bearing on the needs of the Army or my qualifications to serve, I believe it is critical to give the President the ability to move forward with his vision to restore our military to its rightful place in the world." Both the White House and Pentagon had told reporters earlier Friday there was nothing to announce regarding Green's nomination. Green, a retired Army flight surgeon and West Point grad, was tapped in early April as Trump's pick after billionaire Vincent Viola withdrew over issues related to divesting from his financial holdings. Philip Bilden, Trump's pick to be Navy secretary, also withdrew because he was not able to satisfy the Office of Government Ethics' requirements for divestment without "undue disruption" of his assets. Green, currently a state senator in Tennessee, faced rising opposition from LGBT activists and Democrats for his past comments about transgender people. In 2016, Green told a tea party group, "if you poll the psychiatrists, they're going to tell you that transgender is a disease." In 2013, Green blasted President Barack Obama for supporting what he said were "'transvestites in uniform." Green, who is a former Army doctor, is also a self-identified "creationist" who has delivered a lecture arguing against the theory of evolution. Green had defended himself from criticism in a Facebook post last week, writing that the "liberal left has cut and spliced my words about terrorism and ISIS, blatantly falsifying what I've said." Republican Sens. Lindsey Graham and John Mc Cain have also expressed concern over Green's past comments. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/0W_JFCKqu0w/index.html
Negotiator of Paris deal: Exit would damage US standing US negotiator of Paris climate deal: Exit would do 'enormous damage' By Lindsey Mac Nabb, CNN Updated 2212 GMT (0612 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Paris climate deal negotiator on potential U. S. exit Paris climate deal negotiator on potential U. S. exit 04:29 ( CNN) Pulling out of the Paris Agreement on climate change would do "enormous damage to the standing of the United States in the world," says the man who negotiated the deal on behalf of the country. President Donald Trump is expected to make a decision soon on whether to exit the Paris Agreement. On the campaign trail, candidate Trump promised to "cancel" the accord. It's the world's first comprehensive climate agreement -- adopted by nearly 200 nations. There's one sentence that could decide the fate of the planet (yes, really) Todd Stern, former US special envoy for climate change under President Barack Obama, also says it could affect the United States' ability to seek international cooperation on a whole host of other issues, not just climate matters." It's a kind of ' To hell with you' with respect to an issue that countries have been enormously concerned about," Stern told CNN's " The Lead" with Jake Tapper on Friday. " You will see US credibility and leverage in the international community absolutely reduced, because this is an issue that people care about, and that they know they can't solve without US engagement." Also under consideration by the Trump administration: whether to remain in the agreement, and simply reduce the United States' commitment to reduce its carbon emissions 26%-28% from 2005 levels by 2025. Stern says that option is a "bad signal, bad example to others -- but it's better than pulling out of the agreement all together." Read More Internal WH debate on Paris climate accord caught up in legal issues Stern argues you can't solve climate change without international cooperation, given that it's a global problem, and the United States is an "indispensable nation" in that effort. " You gotta have the US in this agreement for it to really work."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/aQnpy1wyIfU/index.html
Backer of GOP health care bill dodges pre-existing conditions issue By Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 2141 GMT (0541 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Rep. Marsha Blackburn was among the 217 yes votes for the new GOP health care bill. The GOP bill -- titled the American Health Care Act -- is headed to Senate. Washington ( CNN) Rep. Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, repeatedly dodged questions about whether the new GOP health care bill will weaken protections for those with pre-existing conditions conditions." The goal is to make certain that these individuals have access, better access, more continuation of access," Blackburn told CNN's Brianna Keilar on Friday. " My hope would be that their premiums would not rise." Rep Blackburn won't answer if people with preexisting conditions will see their premiums rise under new bill CNN Newsroom (@ CNN newsroom) May 5, 2017 Critics of the GOP bill -- titled the American Health Care Act -- argue those with pre-existing conditions are the most at risk. The bill, which seeks to replace Obamacare, now heads to Senate. Republicans just won a health care battle. Winning the war is going to be much tougher. Blackburn has said multiple times -- both in interviews and in messages to her constituents -- that she believes the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, isn't working. On Thursday, when Republicans passed the bill with 217 votes, Blackburn issued a statement explaining her yes vote. Her four main points: The new bill will "dismantle the Obamacare taxes," "eliminate the individual and employer mandate penalties," "help young adults access health insurance and stabilize the marketplace," and "guarantee coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions." Read More When pressed by Keilar, however, Blackburn was less sure about whether those with pre-existing conditions would see their premiums rise under the new bill." Individuals are going to see their premiums go down or stabilize. They are going to be able to have access to affordable health care," she said. " The goal, and what we are striving for ... is to have everyone have access to affordable health care. They don't have that right now in the ACA marketplace. The premiums have gone through the roof. What we are doing right now is not working."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/t1FjcTK-wmI/index.html
Governors uneasy over Medicaid changes in GOP health care bill Governors uneasy over Medicaid changes in GOP health care bill By Eugene Scott and Sophie Tatum, CNN Updated 2042 GMT (0442 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Will premiums & deductibles go down as Trump promises? (16 Videos) Will premiums & deductibles go down as Trump promises? Sanford: I tried to read entire health bill Trump praises Australian universal health care Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Sanders: Thousands will die if bill passes Rep. Collins: I didn't read health care bill Schiff: Health care bill won't pass Senate Congressman tears up about daughter House passes bill to replace Obamacare Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Story highlights If enacted into law, the bill would significantly overhaul Medicaid Several Republican governors have expressed concerns about the proposed changes ( CNN) Governors on both sides of the aisle are warily watching the Republican health care bill move through Congress, anxious over potentially significant cuts to Medicaid funding. If enacted, the bill, which was narrowly passed by the House on Thursday and could face significant changes in the Senate, would significantly overhaul Medicaid. It would send the states a fixed amount of money for each Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap. States could also opt to receive federal Medicaid funding as a block grant for the adults and children in their programs. That would mean states would get a fixed amount of federal funding each year regardless of how many participants are in the program. White House expects health care bill to change, but 'main pillars' to remain Either of those options would limit federal funding, shifting that burden to the states. But many states don't have the money to make up any shortfalls, so in such cases they would likely either curtail benefits, reduce eligibility or cut provider payments. The block grant would be more restrictive since the funding level would not adjust for increases in enrollment, which often happens in bad economic times. " They are talking about slashing $800 billion, Chris, from Medicaid coverage. $800 billion," Virginia Gov. Terry Mc Auliffe, a Democrat, told CNN's Chris Cuomo Friday on " New Day." " Who do you think is going to be affected by that?" Read More" What they are doing is, they put people's lives in jeopardy," he added. " People will die if this becomes law of the land."20 Republicans voted against the health care bill. Here's why. Mc Auliffe said the requirements to receive Medicaid were already "very lean" in Virginia prior to the House voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare." In Virginia, we have a very lean Medicaid delivery system already," he said. " If you are a single woman with two children in Virginia, you have to make less than $6,200 a year. What do you you want me to do, cut it to $5,000 a year?"" I don't have room to cut; that's the problem with the per cap," Mc Auliffe said. " I can't go back and cut." Arkansas Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson praised the House vote but said questions remain about covering his state's residents, saying the bill needs to be "rectified" when it gets to the Senate." There needs to be change," Hutchinson said. " It started in the House yesterday. It gives us more flexibility to manage our health care systems." The 7 Republican Senators to watch on the health care bill Hutchinson said lawmakers need to better examine the impact of shifting costs to the state and provide more clarity about how former Medicaid recipients will get coverage." We are concerned that is more limited under what came from the House," he said. Another vocal opponent of the bill includes Republican Gov. John Kasich, who said the legislation "remains woefully short on the necessary resources to maintain health care for our nation's most vulnerable citizens." Gov. John Kasich on the passage of the American Health Care Act:# AHCA John Kasich (@ John Kasich) May 4, 2017 Kasich cited the importance of coverage for individuals "dealing with mental illness, addiction and chronic illness" and said he was "hopeful" that the Senate would revise the bill. Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker, a Republican, said Thursday that the health care plan would "significantly reduce critical funds for the commonwealth's health care system." Governor Baker's statement on the passage of the American Health Care Act by the U. S. House of Representatives. Charlie Baker (@ Mass Governor) May 4, 2017 " Maintaining flexibility through the Medicaid program is critical to the commonwealth's ability to provide coverage for the needy, and I urge Congress to reject this bill in its current form," Baker said in a statement shared on Twitter. How Trump won another unlikely victory Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner, also a Republican, said the GOP plan fails to address how the new bill affects health care coverage for those depending on Medicaid." Recent changes did not address fundamental concerns about the bill's impact on the 650,000 individuals that are part of our Medicaid expansion population, nor have those changes eased the concerns of the 350,000 people in the individual market who are dealing with skyrocketing premiums and fewer choices," Rauner said Thursday in a statement. " We will continue to voice our concerns as the law moves to the Senate." Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said it was "irresponsible" for Congress to consider legislation that she she said will reduce federal funding for Medicaid. How Trump won another unlikely victory" It is irresponsible for the US House of Representatives to consider this legislation before the Congressional Budget Office has analyzed its impacts on Americans," the Democrat said Thursday in a statement. " In its current form, the ( American Health Care Act) would roll back major provisions in the Affordable Care Act, jeopardizing the health care of 350,000 Oregonians, increasing prices for elderly Oregonians, reducing federal funding for Medicaid enrollment, and risking the loss of more than 23,000 jobs that were created in Oregon after the implementation of the ACA." CNNMoney's Tami Luhby contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/pfC1elm4LWM/index.html
Interior secretary to visit Bears Ears National Monument ahead of potentially historic changes By Dan Merica, CNN Updated 2152 GMT (0552 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Obama designates two new national monuments Obama designates two new national monuments 01:07 Story highlights Trump signed an executive order reviewing presidential power to designate lands as national monuments Washington ( CNN) Ahead of a possibly historic decision by President Donald Trump, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke will travel to Bears Ears National Monument next week to meet with interest groups and tour the national monument at the heart of the President's effort to curb federal protection of land. Local officials around Bears Ears told CNN on Friday that Zinke will visit the state over the weekend to meet with stakeholders in both Salt Lake City and around the remote national monument in southeast Utah. Trump signed an executive order last month that reviews presidential power to designate lands as national monuments, setting into motion a process that could see Trump roll back the protection of lands designated by Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama under the Antiquities Act. Trump will be the first president to do so if he chooses to shrink a national monument. Trump signs order looking to reverse Obama's ban on off-shore drilling At the heart of this process is Bears Ears, a 1.3-million-acre parcel of lands that includes world-class rock climbing, age-old cliff dwellings and land sacred to five Native American tribes that Obama designated a national monument in 2016. The Interior Department confirmed Friday that Zinke will take a four-day listening tour to discuss Bears Ears as well as Grand Staircase- Escalante National Monument, both of which are under review as part of Trump's executive order. Read More Zinke's schedule includes meeting with leaders in Salt Lake on Sunday, according to Gavin Noyes, the executive director of Utah Dine Bikeyah, a nonprofit that works with Native American tribes around Bears Ears. Zinke, Noyes said, will meet with the five tribes interested in protecting Bears Ears: Navajo Nation, Ute Mountain Ute, the Hopi Nation, Zuni Pueblo and Ute Indian Tribe. The Interior Department did not immediately respond to CNN for comment. The area known as the Bears Ears is seen on April 7, 2016 east of Blanding, Utah. President Obama declared it a national monument, a status Native American tribes sought. Noyes said that Zinke invited them to Salt Late City for a Sunday meeting earlier this week and notified them that he would visit the national monument on Monday and Tuesday, too. The group of Native American leaders and groups interested in keeping Bears Ears a national monument will rally in Salt Lake City the day before the meeting. Zinke's trip fulfills a pledge he made last month to visit the area and meet with stakeholders, but will likely mean the former Montana congressman will be confronted by vocal activists who hope to fight any changes to the national monument. The interior secretary told reporters in April that he would make recommendations on Bears Ears by the start of June -- 45 days after the executive order was signed. Ryan Zinke: Climate change not a hoax Ryan Zinke: Climate change not a hoax 01:03 Noyes said he expects "hundreds, if not thousands of supporters" to show up around Bears Ears to meet with Zinke, a sizable number considering Blanding, population 3,668, is the biggest town near the monument. Trump's decision to consider changes to national monuments comes after Western Republican lawmakers, including Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch, complained that Obama overused the law to over-protect land. Though Trump said he was in favor of federal control of public lands during the 2016 campaign, he has recently fallen more in line with Republican orthodoxy on the issue and said he wants to give more control to the states. That timetable for a decision on the monument has energized opponents of the plan, a coalition that includes the Native American tribes, outdoor outfitters and environmental organizations. The five tribes have pledged to personally sue Trump if he chooses to de-list Bears Ears, a land they have worked to protect for seven years because they view it as sacred. And outdoor groups and environmentalists, like the outfitter Patagonia, have pledged to file suit on their own, too. Patagonia, in an effort to spur interest and outrage, will also begin running full page ads knocking Trump in Utah and Montana this weekend. The newspaper ads quotes Trump -- " I've heard a lot about Bears Ears, and I hear it's beautiful" -- before urging people to take action against the President." President Trump is attacking your public lands," it reads. The ads are running in Utah, because of Bears Ears' location, and Montana, where Zinke calls home.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/TqufsHx7_Fg/index.html
Native American advocates size up Trump administration Native American advocates size up Trump administration By Eleanor Mueller, CNNPolitics.com Updated 1135 GMT (1935 HKT) May 6, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump slams Warren during NRA speech Trump slams Warren during NRA speech 00:48 Story highlights Some of the President's executive actions and controversial comments have raised concerns among Native Americans One issue that's already on Zinke's plate at the Interior Department is Native American education Also on Zinke and lawmakers' wish lists are improvements to Native American health care ( CNN) With President Donald Trump's first 100 days in office in the rearview mirror, lawmakers and advocates are uncertain but hopeful about the impact the new administration will have on the Native American community. Trump's choice of Ryan Zinke to be secretary of the interior quelled the concerns of some; as a former congressman from Montana, Zinke has experience representing Native Americans in Washington, which is seen as a promising sign by many of the community's top advocates. But some of the President's executive actions and controversial comments, including a recent reference to Democratic Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren as " Pocahontas," have raised some concerns. Lawmakers serving on the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs have voiced trepidation about the impact the new administration may have on Native American health care, education funding and sovereignty, among other issues. However, community stakeholders say they trying to balance those concerns with optimism as the President's first term unfolds. Zinke takes over Read More In interviews, lawmakers expressed trust in Zinke's demonstrated ability to understand the issues important to Native Americans across the nation. Hailing from a state with seven Indian reservations, Zinke possesses "a degree of knowledge" not typical of the interior secretary position, said Sen. John Mc Cain, the current longest-serving member and former chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs." Secretary Zinke has much more experience on Native American issues than his predecessor -- who had literally none," the Arizona Republican told CNN in an interview. " My initial impression is President Trump and the people around him support sovereignty and the Native American population. They can have a degree of knowledge and involvement in Native American issues that was not the case amongst their predecessors." The interior secretary under former President Barack Obama was Sally Jewell, the previous CEO of outdoor retailer REI. The Interior Department did not respond to requests for comment. In 2015, then- Rep. Zinke sought to make tax breaks on coal mined from American Indian reservations permanent -- a move viewed as boosting the communities' revenue and creating jobs for tribal members. In a statement emailed to CNN, the National Congress of American Indians expressed their support for Zinke, citing "his approach to the ( Bureau of Indian Affairs) as well as his commitment to giving tribal nations a seat at the table across the federal government."" Ryan Zinke has a long history of fighting for our country," NCAI President Brian Cladoosby said in the statement. " Throughout his service as a congressman for Montana, he fought for Montanans and Montana's tribes in the halls of Congress. We have no doubt that Secretary Zinke will continue fighting for all tribes as secretary of interior." Tribal sovereignty The densest cloud of uncertainty surrounds the matter of tribal sovereignty, or the US agreement to protect the ability of individual tribal governments to govern themselves. While Zinke's congressional track record reflects commitment to Native American self-determination, Trump's past is not as clear." Secretary Zinke has always supported the principles of tribal sovereignty and self-determination," Mc Cain said. " That's an important pillar of our tribal relations." In 1993, Trump's comments in a congressional hearing on Indian casinos shocked lawmakers and others." Go up to Connecticut, and you look (at the Mashantucket Pequots)," Trump told the House Natural Resources Native American affairs subcommittee. " They don't look like Indians to me." In June 2016, then-presidential candidate Trump labeled Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts " Pocahontas" -- a reference to her claimed Indian heritage." Pocahontas is at it again!" Trump wrote in a tweet. " Goofy Elizabeth Warren, one of the least productive U. S. Senators, has a nasty mouth." The President resurfaced the comment in Atlanta on April 28 this year, telling a crowd of National Rifle Association members that "it may be Pocahontas" pursuing the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020. The remarks were condemned by the National Council of American Indians, who in a May 3 statement called them "derogatory."" I'm disturbed by some comments the President has made," Sen. Tom Udall, vice chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, told CNN. " He has made some very derogatory comments about tribes. I hope Secretary Zinke encourages President Trump about the importance of self-determination, teach him about that, understand what it's all about." Recent executive actions have done little to assuage these worries, the New Mexico Democrat said. On the Dakota Access Pipeline and the planned border wall (which would cut a reservation in half ), Trump has moved ahead "without talking to" American Indian stakeholders, Udall said." He's taken action without consultation," Udall said. " One of the cores of trust and responsibility is government-to-government consultation, talking with tribes that are concerned." It shows a complete lack of understanding of tribal sovereignty, self-determination -- things very, very important to tribes," Udall added. However, these are missteps that could be remedied with future collaboration, Udall said." The tribes are a little apprehensive," Udall said. " But I think if they see an outreached hand, it is going to help get some things done." Education One issue that's already on Zinke's plate at Interior is Native American education. Speaking at a March 8 hearing of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, the secretary acknowledged the failings of the Bureau of Indian Education." Words cannot capture how terrible it is that children in schools overseen by Bureau of Indian Education are so poorly served," Zinke said. Many lawmakers agree that the schools should be a top priority for the new administration. But though Zinke has said he supports upgrading the schools, actually making changes is more difficult." He responded as you might expect (during the March 8 hearing) -- that he was committed to it, that he understood the challenges and the situation, and he said it was on his highest priority list," Mc Cain said. " He gave the right answers. And I believe him. But I've heard those same answers for years and years." Among the things Mc Cain said he would like to see: More federal funding for school choice initiatives." The answer to that in my view is to give the tribe access to BIE funds to be used for private tuition, tutors, classes, charter schools, so Native families have more choices," Mc Cain said. " I'm not saying charter schools are better or worse -- although I personally believe they're better -- but Native American parents should be able to have a choice where they want their children to go." According to a 2014 Government Accountability Office report, the Bureau of Indian Education spent about $15,391 per pupil annually -- compared to the average of $9,896 per student at public schools nationwide. Despite this, Government Accountability Office reports have found that BIE students have higher dropout rates, lower scores on college admission tests and lower college entrance rates than their public school counterparts." We have a long way to go when it comes to Indian education," Udall said. And the confirmation of Betsy De Vos as secretary of education has done little to assuage the New Mexico Democrat's concerns: " The thing that worries me the most is the new education secretary," he said. De Vos's efforts to "voucherize education" "could well apply to the Bureau of Indian Education," Udall said." I think that would be a real disaster," Udall said. " It would be draining resources away from already depleted resources pool. That is not a good idea." Health care Also on Zinke and lawmakers' wish lists are improvements to Native American health care." The one (issue) I would really start with would be Indian health care," Udall said. " It's been a hot-button issue." During his January 17 confirmation hearing, Zinke told lawmakers that "as bad as the VA is, ( Native American health) is worse." With the ongoing GOP efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, lawmakers and advocates are unsure what the future may hold for the health care of the Native American community. According to Udall, Republicans are "not involving Democrats" in health care reform discussions; an exclusion that makes it difficult for the party to advocate for Indian- American rights." It's a closed-door affair," Udall said. " The best advocates for Native Americans excluded from the table." Given the underfunding of the Indian Health Service, many tribal members "rely heavily" on the Affordable Care Act's health exchange, Udall said. Were the federal government to cut discretionary spending -- as proposed in the President's budget -- and repeal Obamacare, tribes across the country would suffer, Udall said." The proposal in the budget is to increase defense dramatically at the expense of the domestic side," Udall said. " With that proposal and the proposal on the Affordable Care Act, that could be a big hit on the tribes across the country." Speaking at the March 8 hearing, Paul Torres, the chairman of Al Pueblo Council of Governors, also voiced concerns about the budget cuts." These across-the-board cuts are alarming because the majority of programs serving Indian Country fall under the category of discretionary spending and are not exempted under the President's proposed plan," Torres said.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/maVGFLcCcM0/index.html
White House expects health care bill to change some White House expects health care bill to change, but 'main pillars' to remain By Dan Merica, CNN Updated 1808 GMT (0208 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Sarah Huckabee Sanders Washington ( CNN) White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Friday while the White House expects changes to be made to the health care bill that passed the House Thursday, they expect the "main pillars" to remain the same." We expect there to be some changed but we expect the principles and the main pillars of the health care bill as it exists now to remain the same," Sanders said during the daily briefing, filling in for White House press secretary Sean Spicer, who is fulfilling his Navy reservist duty at the Pentagon. Asked what the White House thinks about labeling the health care reform plan " Trumpcare," Sanders said President Donald Trump isn't focused on the name. " We are not focused on labels. What this President wants to be remembered for is not the name that is put on it, but the person that got rid of Obamacare and put a system in place that actually works for the American people," she said. " That is the type of legacy he would like to be focused on." She added: " Call it what you want, but we are calling it reform and a system that works." 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/dgaLqhuXQXA/index.html
Trump administration draft memo roughly 94% cut to the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy White House drug policy office facing massive cuts, draft memo says By Dan Merica, CNN Updated 2005 GMT (0405 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump, GOP leaders celebrate health care win Trump, GOP leaders celebrate health care win 14:21 Story highlights A draft memo says the office will receive a near 94% cut in 2018 Trump pledged to fight opioid abuse Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump pledged throughout the 2016 campaign to fight opioid abuse, but a draft memo on his 2018 budget virtually eliminates an office within the White House aimed at doing just that. The draft memo provided to CNN by a source details how the Office of National Drug Control Policy will receive a near 94% cut in 2018, from a $380 million budget to $24 million." The 2018 Budget reduces resources for the Office of National Drug Control Policy in order to reflect a small, more streamlined organization that can more effectively address drug control issues," the memo reads, later arguing that the budget request will "shift" the office's focus from "duplicative and burdensome administrative tasks" and change the office into more a coordinating body. The draft memo says the budget request will also include the elimination of High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program and the Drug- Free Communities Support Program, arguing they are "duplicative of other efforts across the federal government and supplant state and local responsibilities." The White House declined to get into the specifics of the budget request or detail whether the function of the office will be moved to another office within the federal government. Read More" The budget process is a complex one with many moving parts. It would be premature for us to comment -- or anyone to report -- on any aspect of this ever-changing, internal discussion before the publication of the document," a White House official said. " The President and his Cabinet are working collaboratively to create a leaner, more efficient government that does more with less of tax payers' hard-earned dollars." Democrats were not as charitable, arguing that the budget proposal was a "cruel betrayal by Trump."" Throughout the campaign, Trump promised communities ravaged by opioid addiction that he would come to their aid," said Daniel Wessel, spokesman for the Democratic National Committee. " That was a lie." Mulvaney: Trump open to bill without wall fund Mulvaney: Trump open to bill without wall fund 02:01 Fighting addiction Opioid overdoses have reached epidemic levels, according to the Center for Disease Control. A study from the agency found that 25% of all drug overdose deaths were related to heroin in 2015. That number was just 6% in 1999. Under Trump, the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, which was established by the Anti- Drug Abuse Act of 1988, has remained a largely unused mystery. The website for the group has remained blank since Trump's inauguration." Check back soon for more information," it reads. Fighting opioid addiction was a key Trump promise throughout the 2016 campaign." We will give people struggling with addiction access to the help they need," Trump said weeks before Election Day in 2016. " I would dramatically expand access to treatment slots." Trump tried to make good on that promise earlier this year when he launched a New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie-led task force on the opioid crisis and drug treatment at a White House listening session." We want to help those who have become so badly addicted," Trump said during the listening session that included people who lost family to opioid overdoses. " This is a total epidemic and I think it is probably un-talked about compared to the severity we are witnessing." Grieving father no longer supports Trump Grieving father no longer supports Trump 03:40 Medicaid cuts But those non-profits and experts looking to fight the opioid epidemic have felt let down by Trump, particularly because of concerns that his health care reform plan could eventually hurt addicted Americans who need help. The Trump-backed Republican health care plan would end the Obamacare requirement that addiction services and mental health treatment be covered under Medicaid in the 31 states that expanded the health care program, leaving it to the states to decide whether to cover the addiction services." If you cut off even the essential funding for people to get that treatment, they simply won't get it," said Dr. David C. Lewis, the founder of the Brown University Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies. " That is the problem." Trump's top aides and budget director have said a main goal of the President's budget plan was to end duplicative offices, so it remains unclear whether the functions of the Office of National Drug Control Policy will be rolled into another branch of the federal government.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/R50LB7NObBA/index.html
How Donald Trump won another unlikely victory How Trump won another unlikely victory By Stephen Collinson, Phil Mattingly, Jeremy Diamond and Lauren Fox, CNN Updated 1011 GMT (1811 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump celebrates with GOP at White House (16 Videos) Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Sanford: I tried to read entire health bill Trump praises Australian universal health care Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Sanders: Thousands will die if bill passes Rep. Collins: I didn't read health care bill Schiff: Health care bill won't pass Senate Congressman tears up about daughter House passes bill to replace Obamacare Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Story highlights Trump and House Republicans kept talking even after the embarrassing and dramatic failure to vote on health care in March House Republicans were ready to pass the bill and let the Senate take over Democrats taunted GOP lawmakers after the vote about 2018 prospects, but there's a long way to go Washington ( CNN) It was the moment when hesitation became resolve." Let's get this f***ing thing done!" former combat fighter pilot, Air Force Colonel and Arizona Rep. Martha Mc Sally exhorted her colleagues in a private pre-vote pep rally on Capitol Hill, as House Republicans entrusted their futures to fate and agreed to vote to repeal Obamacare. What's in the Republican health care bill What's in the Republican health care bill 03:18 Nearby, House Speaker Paul Ryan was "giddy," said one colleague, sensing the narrowest of reputation-saving wins after a trial by political fire. Down Pennsylvania Avenue, as Thursday's vote neared, President Donald Trump settled in front of a TV, his Twitter account poised, but slipping into the unusual state of calm that aides say envelops the hyperactive commander-in-chief when moments of history beckon. For Democrats, by contrast, there was only deflation and despair -- as Obamacare, the law with nine lives, absorbed a dramatic blow. But thoughts of revenge also stirred. GOP lawmakers filed out of the House to a serenade: " Na, Na, Na, Na, Hey, Hey, Goodbye," from Democrats convinced the Republicans had sealed their fate in the 2018 mid-terms. Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote 00:31 Despite the Trump and GOP victory rally at the White House, the past few months are just an appetizer as the bill goes to the Senate and members head home to their constituents. There will be more rounds of Republican strife and debates over arcane parliamentary procedure with a new cast of lawmakers. Vice President Mike Pence -- who keeps Capitol Police officers busy with his frequent visits -- will spend more time in his Hill office. We'll see a new report of how the bill will impact Americans. The tweets will undoubtedly continue. Read More This article relates behind-the-scenes negotiations and the emotional and political storm that raged on Capitol Hill as the House GOP belatedly, but triumphantly, honored a promise to its voters that it first made seven years ago and has renewed many times since. Based on dozens of conversations with Republican and Democratic leaders, lawmakers and political aides by CNN's teams on Capitol Hill and in the White House, it reveals how House GOP members finally steeled themselves to overcome the infighting and inaction that tarnished Trump's First 100 Days. It is also the story of how the GOP decided that the price of inaction now was greater than the risk of passing a bill that even many Senate Republicans believe is deeply flawed. Trump praises Australia's universal healthcare after Obamacare repeal" I think people in the House just simply wanted to get a bill out of the House and hoped that the Senate did something with it," said Rep. Charlie Dent, one of 20 Republicans who voted no. But for those on the other side, victory tastes sweet." This is a great plan," Trump said at the White House, seemingly looking forward to the next round. " I actually think it will get even better. This is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. Make no mistake about it." Back from the brink Flash back six weeks and it was all so different. After pulling an earlier version of the bill, a defeated Ryan admitted that Obamacare was "the law of the land," and that the GOP, for now, had missed its moment. But health care reform still had a faint pulse. A former opponent of the House bill, Sen. Rand Paul, wearing a Duke baseball cap from his alma mater, surprised the White House press pool after returning from golf with Trump on April 2, saying a deal was getting closer. The President tweeted that "talks on Repealing and Replacing Obama Care are, and have been, going on, and will continue until such time as a deal is hopefully struck." Talks on Repealing and Replacing Obama Care are, and have been, going on, and will continue until such time as a deal is hopefully struck.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) April 2, 2017 It seemed like Trumpian bluster. Ryan was also quietly regrouping. He let the dust settle amid humiliating questions about his leadership. Critics highlighted his apparently misfiring relationship with Trump. In reality, that impression was premature. The two men -- opposites in temperament and style -- grew increasingly close in the foxhole in the weeks to come. Even so, there was no immediate sense among GOP leaders that health care's time had come again. Committee chairs were gung ho to take on tax reform. Emotional GOP congressman cites family medical bills after vote But Ryan did encourage members to keep talking about health care. Though optimism had been shattered, a more bottom-up approach was worth a shot. The Wisconsin Republican reasoned that time and rising political pressure on his members were needed to knit party splits before he could try again. Ryan's top health care staffer, Matt Hoffmann, served as the go-between as Rep. Mark Meadows, chairman of the Freedom Caucus and Rep. Tom Mc Arthur, a second-term New Jersey lawmaker and chair of the Tuesday Group moderates, worked to fuse divisions that sent the American Health Care Act crashing. Throughout April they swapped legislative language, finally agreeing on a deal to allow states to seek waivers to weaken several key Obamacare reforms that protect those with pre-existing conditions. But in a concession to moderates, the provision would not apply to those who maintained continuous coverage. Once what became known as the Mac Arthur amendment was codified, whip teams set about testing its support in the Republican conference and solidifying the votes of Freedom Caucus members, the senior GOP source said. The White House was agitating for a vote as a capstone to a barren First 100 Days. A week ago, House leaders decided not to try to ram the bill through just to meet the arbitrary deadline. But despite another perceived failure, the process was "100 percent still alive," one senior GOP aide said. Questions still lingered about pre-existing conditions -- resulting in Rep. Fred Upton's bombshell announcement that he would vote no, a brick wall that could have again blocked the GOP's efforts. Who is Rep. Tom Mac Arthur? But after a meeting with the President alongside his colleague Billy Long of Missouri and a guarantee that funding for high risk pools would rise from $5 billion to $8 billion, Upton came on board. Though Democrats and many policy experts say $8 billion is a drop in the bucket of the cash needed to fund high risk pools, Upton's decision was crucial." It gave our guys a clear-cut reason to get to yes," one senior GOP aide said. By Wednesday night, less than 12 hours after the full details emerged of the latest change to a seemingly ever evolving, always-rejected piece of legislation, Republican leaders met in Ryan's office. They didn't have a solid 216 yes votes, aides say. But they were close. Close enough to force the issue. How Republicans from Clinton-won districts voted on health care" It was time -- we felt it was moving in the right direction, but we also knew we'd hit a point of no return," one person directly involved in the process said. Thursday, it was clear the play had paid off. They were locking in votes. Pledges from the Department of Health and Human Services helped flip two members. Leadership guarantees of future legislation brought along another. Ryan, who generally eschews the hard, one-on-one sell with wavering members, did just that, several times, one source said. Implicit in all of it was protection --- in the form of supportive GOP groups come campaign time --- that would be there in spades for endangered members who went along, several sources said. One member in the conference meeting, where colleagues were greeted by the theme tune from " Rocky" and snapshots of General George S. Patton, as well as Mc Sally's rallying call, said the tone of Ryan's message to his troops was simple: " It's time to roll." Trump's role Trump waited for the vote in typical style: by tweeting." If victorious, Republicans will be having a big press conference at the beautiful Rose Garden of the White House immediately after vote!" he wrote Thursday afternoon. Sanders: Thousands will die if bill passes Sanders: Thousands will die if bill passes 01:12 And after weeks of misfires that exposed his inexperience in wooing Congress, he got his win." Coming from a different world, and only being a politician for a short period of time, how am I doing? Am I doing OK? I'm President. Hey, I'm President, do you believe it, right?" he crowed in the Rose Garden. Months ago many of those beaming Republican leaders behind Trump had not believed it or in him. There had been whispers that Trump's loose tongue revealed his ignorance about what was in the bill and made compromise harder. But by Thursday afternoon, Trump was pouring praise on Ryan and his crew, and it did seem that, in the President's words, the party had "developed a bond." White House defends voting before CBO score A White House official told CNN that Trump had kept up an intense push behind the scenes, ensuring that aides supported Mac Arthur and Meadows as they sought common ground and tasking HHS Secretary Tom Price with briefing wavering members on Medicaid funding. He and Ryan swapped notes in multiple late night phone calls." The President's been incredibly engaged in this process, particularly over the last several days," deputy press secretary Sarah Sanders said. For all his ham-fisted interventions, Trump has evolved through the health care process, aides believe. He now knows artificial deadlines cut no ice in Congress. He's also learned the legislative process is more complex than the business world — after running for office proclaiming his deal-making skills would take Washington by storm." It's not so cut and dry here," one aide said, explaining Trump's thinking. " There's so many more players involved and everybody has something that they want." Still, you can't take the businessman out of the President -- he still prizes the personal touch, the person said. Congressman admits he didn't read full health care bill before voting Trump's flexibility likely helped too." This president probably has more philosophic dexterity than most of the presidents I've dealt with in the past," said South Carolina Rep. Mark Sanford, who voted for the bill. " That makes it a little bit different because typically there is sort of a fixed starting point or a fixed ending point on where an administration might be." As the votes rolled in, Trump's coterie gathered in the dining room off the Oval Office, among them, Pence, Price, Trump's daughter Ivanka, son-in-law Jared Kushner, top Economic Adviser Gary Cohn, adviser Steve Bannon, counselor Kellyanne Conway, press aide Hope Hicks, political aide Dan Scavino and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma. It felt like election night all over again. " We were all overjoyed and he was very docile, frankly. Very hopeful but not prematurely celebrating. We saw the same thing today," one official said. Pence steps up While Trump took the plaudits, many players in the drama spoke approvingly of Pence. Even Dent, who voted against the bill, praised the Vice President's soft sell technique." He wanted to work with me. Very civil, very constructive meeting as you would expect from Mike Pence," Dent recalled. " I always get the sense that Mike Pence is the velvet glove, the soft touch. The good cop."" He knows how to talk to people," he added. Here's a list of the Republicans who voted 'no' on the health care bill Pence threw himself into the renewed push to pass health care soon after returning from a marathon trip to Asia. He was all over Capitol Hill over the last few days, forming a partnership with White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, who roamed the House floor as the vote went ahead. Pence's ubiquity did not go unnoticed. A Capitol Police officer was overheard telling a colleague how he doesn't like the days when Pence is on the Hill because he likes to mingle so many members, the responsibility of protecting him becomes even more intense. Democratic despair, GOP goes home In 2010, then- Vice President Joe Biden called Obamacare a "big f***ing deal. His sentiments were similar, for other reasons, on Thursday." Day of shame in Congress. Protections for pre-existing conditions, mental health, maternity care, addiction services -- all gone," Biden tweeted. Day of shame in Congress. Protections for pre-existing conditions, mental health, maternity care, addiction services -- all gone.— Joe Biden (@ Joe Biden) May 4, 2017 Cries of "shame, shame, shame," greeted GOP lawmakers as they walked down the ornate steps on the East Front of the Capitol. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi warned the GOP: " You have every provision of this bill tattooed on your forehead. You will glow in the dark on this one." How Senate Republicans plan to tackle health care But all may not be lost yet for the Democrats. The bill must go now to the Senate, and it emerged Thursday that the chamber will only use the House bill as a skeleton before writing its own legislation. Now, House members are going home, where protesters and raucous town halls certainly await. There is a feeling of accomplishment, several members acknowledged, that so far is a novelty in the new Republican era. They know what is ahead, and are ready." We know the fight that's coming," one senior GOP aide said. " We want that fight." CNN's Dana Bash, Jeff Zeleny, Jim Acosta, MJ Lee and Athena Jones contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/2Mfpbz5x-ss/index.html
What we learned about Trump and Republicans By MJ Lee and Lauren Fox, CNN Updated 1138 GMT (1938 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. House passes bill to replace Obamacare (15 Videos) House passes bill to replace Obamacare Sanford: I tried to read entire health bill Trump praises Australian universal health care Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Sanders: Thousands will die if bill passes Rep. Collins: I didn't read health care bill Schiff: Health care bill won't pass Senate Congressman tears up about daughter Pelosi: GOP will have vote tattooed on them Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Washington ( CNN) It has been a long three-and-a-half months. For President Donald Trump and Republican lawmakers, passing a bill to dismantle Obamacare was a trying and at times exasperating exercise. How Senate Republicans plan to tackle health care The fits and starts of legislating that culminated in the House passing health care legislation Thursday revealed a lot both about the President and his GOP colleagues on Capitol Hill. It also sets up the foundations of a working relationship between the White House and Congress, as Republicans now look to tackle other priorities like tax reform." We've developed a bond," Trump said at the White House. " This has really brought the Republican Party together." Here's what we learned leading up to Thursday: Read More This was why Trump chose Pence as his VPWhen Trump chose Pence as his running mate last summer, it seemed an unlikely choice: They hardly knew each other and their personalities appeared to be polar opposites. But the health care exercise appeared to validate precisely why Trump ultimately chose Pence. He wanted someone who understood Congress. Trump and his top advisers knew that the nominee's lack of knowledge about the ins and outs of Capitol Hill was a significant handicap. Pence, a former Indiana governor and congressman, was just the Washington creature to make up for Trump's weak spot. Over the past few weeks -- and particularly in the final days leading up to Thursday's vote -- Pence has been a constant presence in the House. He lobbied and corralled Republicans to get behind the legislation as he navigated the various factions within the GOP conference.20 Republicans voted against the health care bill. Here's why. The morning of the health care vote, a CNN reporter walking into the House overheard one Capitol Police officer lamenting to a colleague about the challenges of protecting Pence. " Pence is difficult," the officer said, "because he likes to mingle with everybody." The House Freedom Caucus may hold the keys to all future deals After the Republican health care bill went up in flames in March, it became clear that Trump would have to choose between the moderate Tuesday Group and the conservative Freedom Caucus. Trump chose the Freedom Caucus. Not long after House Speaker Paul Ryan declared that " Obamacare is the law of the land," the White House started trying again, desperately looking for a victory. Senior administration officials began furiously courting members of the Freedom Caucus, looking to strike a deal that would bring stubborn lawmakers on board. Congressman admits he didn't read full health care bill before voting Those negotiations produced an amendment that would allow states to apply for waivers from key Obamacare requirements. The Freedom Caucus, led by Chairman Mark Meadows, endorsed it; members of the Tuesday Group balked. In the end, 16 of the 20 Republicans who voted against the health care bill were members of the Tuesday Group. In an already fractured conference, Thursday's vote could set up significant precedent for conservative Republicans to roll over their moderate counterparts in future battles. Policy is not Trump's forte -- and that's not fun for his colleagues in Congress One thing has become painfully apparent over the past few months: Trump doesn't understand the nuances of health care policy. In public remarks, interviews and conversations with colleagues on the Hill, the President demonstrated a striking lack of knowledge about what exactly was in the health care bill that he was personally vouching for. More than once, Trump only made things more difficult for GOP lawmakers by speaking out of turn and making promises that were not in line with his party's priorities on Obamacare repeal and replacement. This past weekend, for example, Trump vowed that the GOP bill would do more to protect people with pre-existing conditions than Obamacare -- comments that were widely panned. In a telling moment in February, an exasperated Trump said: " Nobody knew health care could be so complicated." All of this doesn't bode well for the GOP's upcoming legislative battles, as lawmakers look to tackle items like tax reform and infrastructure. When in doubt, punt to the Senate In the end, Republican infighting and internal disagreements about health care policy were overcome by one shared desire: send something to the Senate and move on. The rallying cry to move the bill to the upper chamber became a key argument for whips hoping to convince moderates on the fence that the bill's shortcomings might be repaired at a later date if they only voted it out of the House. Even Republicans who had deep concerns about the House legislation walked the plank and voted "yes" in the hopes that the more moderate Senate might change the bill to their liking. Rep. Peter King told reporters off the House floor earlier in the week that he planned to vote yes (and he did) -- because it was time to let the Senate have a whack at it." If it goes to the Senate and comes back like this, I'd probably vote 'no,' but to move it along, I'd probably vote yes only for that reason," the New York Republican said. Don't tell the House what to do The White House repeatedly applied pressure to the House leadership to bring a health care bill to the floor. But over and over again, Republican leaders, aides and rank-and-file members had to remind their new President that it was the House that sets the floor schedule -- not the White House. Emotional GOP congressman cites family medical bills after vote After Republicans were forced to pull their health care legislation from the floor in March because they were short of the votes, the White House doubled down. White House officials regularly leaked to reporters about what they said were imminent votes. All the while, Republican leadership aides repeated a common refrain: they weren't voting until they got to 216 -- the threshold needed to pass a bill. A few weeks later, the White House's desire to mark some progress culminated in a made-for- TV moment, with Ryan announcing a relatively small amendment to the underlying health care bill. That pressure only intensified in the days leading up to Trump's first 100 days. Short on a major legislative achievement, it was clear that the Trump administration was ready to see something on the floor, but once again leadership held off, deciding not to risk it until they knew they could deliver. In the end -- when House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy finally announced a vote ‪ Wednesday night -- Republican leadership was finally able to give Trump what he wanted. More transparency never hurts One of the key criticisms Republicans have repeated on the campaign trail about Obamacare is that Democrats had negotiated the law in closed-door meetings and with backroom deals. In the end, some Republicans admitted they hadn't learned any lessons from the very thing they had been complaining about for years. From the start, Republican leaders were hit from their own members that the process had been too rushed and secretive. Sen. Rand Paul, a Republican from Kentucky, led the Capitol Hill press corps on a frantic tour through the halls of Congress looking for the House's health care bill he argued they were keeping under lock and key. White House defends voting before CBO score Perhaps the most stinging accusation: Passing the bill in the House Thursday without an updated score from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, which said in March the bill would leave 24 million fewer people insured by 2020 than under Obamacare." This could have been a heroes' bill if you said in January, ' We're going to have the best health care bill you've ever seen in September' and taken that period of time and worked this thing," said Rep. Walter Jones, a North Carolina Republican who voted "no" on Thursday. " I think they could have had an excellent bill. It wouldn't be perfect, but it would be a hell of a lot better than this thing is."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/jobUPRcrbjk/index.html
Trump praises Australia's universal health care after Obamacare repeal Trump praises Australia's universal health care after Obamacare repeal By Ben Westcott, CNN Updated 0753 GMT (1553 HKT) May 5, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump praises Australian universal health care (11 Videos) Trump praises Australian universal health care Trump celebrates with GOP at White House Democrats sing ' Goodbye' after vote Congressman tears up about daughter Kimmel chokes up over newborn's health Spicer responds to Kimmel's monologue Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Jimmy Kimmel's personal story gets political Lewis: Kimmel's plea not the right move Mc Carthy: We have enough health care votes Trump flips lawmakers' vote on health care Story highlights Australia's health care system is mostly government-funded, providing many services for free Trump made his comments the same day as Republicans voted to repeal Obamacare ( CNN) Hours after scoring a victory in the House to effectively kill Obamacare, US President Donald Trump praised Australia's universal health care system during a press conference with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull." It's going to be fantastic health care," Trump said, referring to his new health care plan. " I shouldn't say this to our great gentleman and my friend from Australia because you have better health care than we do." US Senator Bernie Sanders quickly picked up on the remark which came after Trump's new bill passed by a handful of votes. The new law still has to pass the US Senate." Well Mr President, you're right, in Australia and every other major country on Earth they guarantee health care to all people. They don't throw 24 million people off health insurance. So maybe when we get to the Senate we should start off with looking at the Australian health care system," Sanders told CNN's Anderson Cooper. Australia has a universal health care system, known as Medicare, which gives citizens free access to doctors and public hospitals paid for by the government. Read More In the US, the new Republican bill will significantly cut the amount of government support for Medicaid, which provides health care support to some US citizens. RELATED: How US health care stacks up against global systems How Australia's health care system works Australia's health care system is mostly funded by the government while relying on private health insurance for some services. It was originally introduced by the left-wing government of former Prime Minister Gough Whitlam in 1975 to provide the "most equitable and efficient means of providing health insurance coverage for all Australians." It replaced an earlier system of voluntary health insurance. Fareed's Take: Trump's health care plan Fareed's Take: Trump's health care plan 03:52 Australian residents are able to see doctors and optometrists, as well as receive some minor surgeries, usually free of charge. The partial cost of pharmaceuticals is also covered under the separate Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. Residents get hospital treatment at no charge, although you can't choose your doctor. It is partly funded by a 2% levy on all taxpayers, although that can be reduced or even waived for people earning low incomes. For the wealthy, an additional tax applies to people who don't have private health insurance. In 2014, the Australian government spent 9% of its GDP on health care, compared to the 17% spent by the United States the same year. Not everything is free however -- Medicare doesn't cover all dentist visits, most physiotherapy and ambulance services. Many Australians still need private health insurance for some or all of these. Battle over Obamacare Health care in the US is much more complicated -- there is no broad overarching government-funded health care system. Instead, the majority of health care providers are privately run and health insurance can be purchased to use them. What's in the Republican health care bill What's in the Republican health care bill 03:18 The vast majority of health insurance is provided by US citizens' employers, although tens of millions of Americans remain uninsured. In an attempt to improve the system, former US President Barack Obama passed the Affordable Care Act in 2010, during his first term. A signature achievement of his administration, it came to be known as Obamacare. It was designed to increase the array of healthcare benefits provided by insurers and levied a tax on the wealthy to help pay for it. Republicans were strongly opposed to the law and called for its repeal. However, Democrats say millions of Americans would lose their insurance if Trump's bill was to pass. The bill also allow insurers to charge higher premiums for those in their 50s and early 60s, compared to younger consumers, and slashes federal support for Medicaid.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/8lzcKg15IR0/index.html
Live updates: French presidential election 2017 - CNN.com French election: Live updates By Lauren Said- Moorhouse, Hilary Clarke and Blathnaid Healy, CNN Updated 2253 GMT (0653 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. How Emmanuel Macron won the French presidency (15 Videos) How Emmanuel Macron won the French presidency What to know about Emmanuel Macron Emmanuel Macron: We will not yield to fear Le Pen congratulates Macron on victory Macron spokesman describes winning strategy Macron addresses nation after election Emmanuel Macron's full speech at the Louvre French voters: This election is a 'second revolution' French presidential candidate condemns hack Carpool confab: French voters talk Macron French candidate: I'm not part of the system Who is Marine Le Pen? Inside Macron's unconventional love story Why these French voters support Macron Why these French voters support Le Pen ( CNN) Emmanuel Macron will become France's next president, defeating his far-right rival Marine Le Pen by a wide margin with a majority of polling stations reporting. Get the latest updates below. Home Regions U. S. Africa Americas Asia China Europe Middle East Opinion U. S. Politics45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica State Business Markets Tech Luxury Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Sport Football Golf Tennis Motorsport Horseracing Equestrian Sailing Skiing Travel Aviation Business Traveller Destinations Features Food/ Drink Hotels Partner Hotels Fashion Design Architecture Arts Autos Luxury Health Diet + Fitness Living Well Parenting + Family Vital Signs Features Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa2 degrees All Features Video Video news Feature shows HLNTV shows TV schedule Faces of CNN Worldwide CNN VR How To Watch VR Archives More… Weather CNN Heroes CNN Profiles Leadership Pressroom Partner sitesi Report International Edition Set edition preference: U. S. International Confirm U. S. International Arabic Español© 2017  Cable  News  Network. Turner  Broadcasting  System,  Inc. All  Rights  Reserved. CNN  Sans ™ & © 2016  Cable  News  Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Advertise with us About us Newsletters Work for us Help Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/X6GilO9jIt8/index.html
Why Emmanuel Macron is the anti- Donald Trump Why Emmanuel Macron is the anti- Donald Trump By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1333 GMT (2133 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. French voters: This election is a 'second revolution' French voters: This election is a 'second revolution' 01:44 Story highlights France picks its new president Sunday. Emmanuel Macron, of the newly formed En Marche party, faces off with Marine Le Pen of the National Front Polling in France has proved much more accurate than in the British referendum or the US presidential election Immigration and terrorism have been put center stage by the far right and have, as result, been central Macron represents all that Donald Trump is not ( CNN) France picks its new president Sunday. Emmanuel Macron, of the newly formed En Marche party, faces off with Marine Le Pen of the National Front. Macron, who led narrowly in the first vote on April 23, has been endorsed by former President Barack Obama. President Donald Trump has praised Le Pen's populism and views on immigration but has not endorsed her. I reached out to CNN Paris correspondent Melissa Bell for her perspective on today's vote and what it means for France -- and the United States. Our conversation, conducted via email and lightly edited for flow, is below. Cillizza: Polling suggests this is Macron's to lose. Is there any sense he might? And if he does, why is that? Bell: A word on polls, first of all. The polling in France has proved much more accurate than the polling in either the British referendum or the US presidential election. French pollsters had explained to me in the run-up to the first round of voting that they did not believe they were likely to get caught out in the same way. They explained that France has long had a far right and a far left vote and that they are far more used to weighting their results than Anglo- Saxon pollsters. The "vote that dare not speak its name" is something that they are better equipped to hear because they are more used to factoring it in. And so it proved. In the first round of voting on April 23, the pollsters were very close to the final result. There is no reason to think that this won't also be true in the second. The concern has been that some external factor might come and disrupt the process ahead of the run-off. France's two-round system gives the French the luxury of voting with their hearts in the first round and their minds in the second. Or, as the French sometimes put it, of voting in favor of someone in the first and then against someone in the second. Which means that there has been little doubt in the minds of many people that even though Le Pen got through the first round, she would be less likely to get past the second. Read More The worry though has been of something like a big terrorist attack disrupting the period leading up to the second round vote and giving the advantage to the far right, which has put security and the fight against radical extremism at the heart of its campaign. In the end it appears to be another type of external event that is causing the disruption: the massive and carefully timed Macron leaks. France is taking the leaks very seriously, threatening legal action against any who might try to share the contents of the leaked documents. The blackout period in which we find ourselves means that the French will not know what is in the leaked documents and, therefore, whether they are merely embarrassing or more damaging than that. And so they will go to the polls with this confusion hanging over them. Having said that, I do not believe that this could in any way allow a Le Pen victory. It might cause her score to be slightly above what it might have been but probably marginally. Cillizza: Le Pen was all the buzz in the first vote. But it feels like there has been less interest in her since. Why? Bell: The "entre-deux-tours," which began on April 23 and ends tomorrow morning, really marked a new phase of the campaign. And one during which Le Pen was considered to have started strong. The first week following the first round really saw her dominate the headlines and the campaign. She made a number of television appearances in which she seemed more gracious and presidential than she had in the past. She seemed to have the upper hand and many people began to wonder if perhaps she had been underestimated. But then the big "entre-deux-tours" debate put an end to that. Rather than continue what had appeared a winning strategy and looking to win the election rather than the debate, she went on the attack from the very first minute of the live broadcast, setting the tone for what became a brutal two-and-a-half-hour war of words between the two candidates. She came off far worse, weak on the economy and Europe, and generally out of her depth. From then on in, it all went downhill, with protesters turning up at her events and images of her fleeing dominating the headlines. Cillizza: We hear a lot about terrorism and immigration as issues in the race. Are they the dominant ones French people are voting on? Or is there other stuff that we don't hear about in the states? Bell: Immigration and terrorism have been put center stage by the far right and have, as result, been central. But Le Pen's message goes further than that; it is really that she wants to make France great again by making it French again. In a sense immigration and dealing with terrorism are just the first stage in what she seeks. She has really ramped up the nationalist rhetoric of late. She¹s also adopted an economic program that is very left wing. She wants to beef up France¹s already-substantial welfare state, leave the European Union and introduce economically protectionist measures to help boost the economy. There is a lot of President Trump in what she sells. And she has regularly said that she believes that his victory merely foreshadowed her own. Cillizza: If Macron wins, having started a totally new party, what does that tell us about the state of the French political system? What about if Le Pen wins? Bell: It tells us several things. That the French were really ready for change because this is quite revolutionary. Macron wants to get rid of the party career politicians that have dominated French politics for decades and who tend to be recycled not for years but for decades. He wants to choose his ministers and the MPs that he will be putting forward in June¹s parliamentary elections from civil society. He has already redrawn France¹s political map by pushing out of the first round the two candidates of the parties that have shared power in France since 1958. In that perhaps France has managed where Britain and the US had failed: To find a progressive answer to the need for change and to stop the populist wave. If Le Pen wins, it tells us that once again the anger of a part of the electorate that we have trouble hearing has proved far stronger than anyone had imagined. But this time with far more serious consequences since a French president has far more unchecked power in his (or her) hands on a national level than an American one. And the changes she is promising including the withdrawal from the Euro, could shake global markets for years to come. Cillizza: Finish this sentence: " If Macron wins, his relationship with President Trump will be ________." Now, explain. Bell: " Complicated." Emmanuel Macron represents all that Donald Trump is not. He represents the world order that Trump has kicked against: Consensus based on the idea of shared values rather than the single-minded pursuit of individual interests. He is pro- European and pro-globalization. He will represent a boost to the camp of world leaders who worry about populists and want them contained.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/b2jAVLYBeME/index.html
Raul Labrador's worst week in Washington Raul Labrador's worst week in Washington By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 2101 GMT (0501 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. GOP rep. sparks outrage at town hall (16 Videos) GOP rep. sparks outrage at town hall Rep.: Constituents don't pay my salary Teen faces off with senator at town hall Graham booed over Gorsuch vote Freedom Caucus member's contentious town hall ICE director shouted down at town hall Anti- Trump protesters target GOP lawmakers Senator Graham talks Obamacare, gets booed Rep. Collins: I don't see value of town halls Darrell Issa faces tough crowd at town hall Contentious moments from US town halls Young boy steals show at town hall GOP congressman booed at town hall Constituent to Grassley: We are your boss Constituent to senator: 2020, you're done! Crowd erupts as congressman avoids question Story highlights Labrador gave Democrats a ready-made attack line House Republicans badly need a disciplined message to turn the public's view of the AHCA around ( CNN) House Republicans took a massive political risk this week: They passed unpopular legislation to reform and replace the Affordable Care Act with no sense of how much it would cost or how many Americans it would (or won't) cover. Or whether the Senate will even act on it. What Republicans desperately need now is an aggressive messaging effort aimed at explaining to a wary public why the American Health Care Act will actually make their lives better. Raul Labrador did the exact opposite of all that at a town hall meeting in Lewiston, Idaho, on Friday. " Nobody dies because they don't have access to health care," the Republican congressman from Idaho said in response to a statement by a woman that the "lack of health care was essentially asking people to die," according to local CBS station KLEW. If you didn't hear that line before now, never fear: You'll be hearing it A LOT more in Democratic campaign ads over the next 18 months or so. Read More Labrador, a member of the House Freedom Caucus, won't likely lose re-election in ruby red Idaho. But what he did Friday was give Democrats a ready-made attack line against every vulnerable House Republican who voted for (or even against) the AHCA. Labrador's quote affirms absolutely everything that Democrats have been arguing about Republicans since the fight over the GOP health care plan began: That they are out of touch with the average person and simply don't understand (or don't care) about the real-world implications of their policy proposals. And, worse yet: It was captured on video, meaning that it can be played (and seen) over and over again from now all the way until November 2018. ( Already, Labrador's comments have become national news, being run on a loop on cable TV.) House Republicans badly need a disciplined message effort if they want to turn the public's view of the AHCA around. Labrador started that effort off on the exact wrong foot on Friday. Raul Labrador, for ensuring you'll be in a whole lot of Democratic attack ads over the next year and a half, you had the worst week in Washington, Congrats, or something.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/-rFNGjMSdus/index.html
Trump singles out historically black college funds in signing statement Trump singles out historically black college funds in signing statement By Athena Jones and Sophie Tatum, CNN Updated 2112 GMT (0512 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. U. S. President Donald Trump prepares to sign three Executive Orders in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC on Monday, January 23, 2017. Story highlights Trump signed the $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill Friday Signing statements are often used to flag provisions an administration might disregard Washington ( CNN) The White House pushed back Sunday on questions about a signing statement President Donald Trump added to the latest government spending bill Friday that said his administration would treat minority spending programs -- including one to help historically black colleges pay for construction -- in a manner consistent with the Constitution. The signing statement "simply indicates that the President will interpret those provisions consistent with the Constitution" and is not dissimilar to signing statements issued by past presidents, a White House official said Sunday. " The important thing to realize is: The President was able to secure big wins for his top priorities in this spending bill, including more than $25 billion in additional funding for the military, $1.52 billion for border security, a permanent extension of health coverage for retired miners, and a three-year extension of the DC school choice program," the official said. Trump signed the $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill Friday, adding the statement: " My administration shall treat provisions that allocate benefits on the basis of race, ethnicity, and gender ... in a manner consistent with the requirement to afford equal protection of the laws under the Due Process Clause of the Constitution's Fifth Amendment." Those programs included historically black college financing, Native American housing block grants and minority business development, the statement said. Read More Such statements are often used to flag provisions an administration might disregard. The aim of the Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program is provide low-cost capital to finance improvements to the infrastructure of the nation's historically black colleges and universities, including for the repair or construction of classrooms, libraries, dormitories and the like, according to the Department of Education.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/jra9bwmbjtU/index.html
Priebus defends proposed cuts to W. H. office battling drug epidemic Priebus defends proposed cuts to W. H. office battling drug epidemic By Sophie Tatum Updated 1932 GMT (0332 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Deaths from synthetic opioids on the rise Deaths from synthetic opioids on the rise 02:08 Story highlights " We have duplicative services in this regard all over the place," Priebus said The Untied States is currently in facing epidemic levels of opioid abuse Washington ( CNN) White House chief of staff Reince Priebus defended a draft proposal to slash funds for the White House office responsible for fighting the opioid epidemic on Sunday, saying a lot of what the office does duplicates other government programs. Cautioning that "nothing is final in this debate and discussion in regard to this particular issue," Priebus told Fox News' Chris Wallace that "we have duplicative services in this regard all over the place," pointing to the departments of Justice and Health and Human Services. The draft budget memo, obtained by CNN, proposes cutting the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy's budget from $380 million to $24 million -- or nearly 94 percent -- a move at odds with Trump's campaign pledge to fight opioid addiction and abuse. The cuts would aim to create "a small, more streamlined organization that can more effectively address drug control issues," the memo said, adding that the office would look to remove the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program, which tries to coordinate the drug-control efforts of local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and the Drug- Free Communities Support Program, which provides funding to community-based coalitions that organize to prevent youth substance use. Acting drug czar Richard Baum called the proposed cuts "heartbreaking," National Public Radio reported. Read More The Untied States is currently in facing epidemic levels of opioid abuse, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Since taking office, Trump has tapped New Jersey Republican Gov. Chris Christie to lead a task force devoted to tackling the issue. " I don't think any president showed more commitment in the first 100 days in regard to tackling opiates (and) putting a commission together," Priebus said. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price also commented on the proposed cuts on NBC's " Meet the Press" on Sunday, reiterating Priebus' note that the budget is not yet completed. " Whether it's through an office within the White house or a department or agency within the government I don't think the American people care," Price said. " What they care about is that we're addressing this opioid crisis in the most aggressive and effective manner possible." Price called fighting opioids "one of the top three priorities" for Health and Human Services. " We were able to put out $485 million in grants to states two weeks ago," he said. " I'm moving around the country this coming week to go to states where we want to make certain that they are allowed and have the resources to address this opioid crisis." CNN's Dan Merica contributed to this report. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/KSr1SJHnhBg/index.html
Kasich: Republican health care bill is 'inadequate' Kasich: Republican health care bill is 'inadequate' By Sophie Tatum Updated 1740 GMT (0140 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Gov. John Kasich slams GOP health bill Gov. John Kasich slams GOP health bill 02:25 Story highlights Kasich called the just-passed GOP health care bill "inadequate" The CBO's original score of the bill in March projected an $880 billion cut to Medicaid over 10 years" I think the fundamental issue here are the resources," Kasich said Washington ( CNN) Ohio Republican Gov. John Kasich slammed the GOP health care bill on CNN's " State of the Union" Sunday morning, calling it "inadequate" and saying his party was "trying to fulfill a campaign promise" in pushing it through. The former presidential candidate said Medicaid covers 700,000 people in his state, a third of whom have mental illness or drug addictions and a quarter of whom have chronic diseases -- people who Kasich said would be hurt by the proposed changes in the bill. Kasich cited how the bill would limit Medicaid expansion by 2020, which he said would create problems because of the way people cycle off of Medicaid coverage -- and never to get back on." I don't have a problem trying to move the Medicaid expansion, which gives an enhanced match from the federal government, to a more traditional match, but you can't do that overnight," he said. Kasich also said the bill would require certain people to buy insurance policies on the state exchanges, which come with pricey premiums and deductibles, rendering coverage unaffordable for many of those coming off Medicaid. The tax credit provided under the GOP would not be enough to offset the higher costs, Kasich said. Read More" How do we think that the mentally ill have the ability to pay the deductible on an insurance policy that they have that they can buy for $3,000?" Kasich said, adding that people whose coverage he says would suffer under the bill will be "living in the emergency rooms again." The Congressional Budget Office's original score of the bill in March stated the plan would cut $880 billion from Medicaid over 10 years. However, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price refuted the CBO's estimate of cuts earlier in the show and, when pressed repeatedly by CNN's Jake Tapper on whether the projected cuts would translate into millions of people losing coverage, said "absolutely not." " Remember that there are no cuts to the Medicaid program; there's increases in spending, but what we're doing is apportioning it in a way that allows the states more flexibility to cover their Medicaid and care for their Medicaid population," Price said. " We believe strongly that the Medicaid population will be cared for in a better way under our program because it will be more responsive to them," Price said. However, the cuts would put pressure on the states to make up for federal funding shortfalls under the GOP bill, which has a number of governors wary that the lack of funds could lead to them to limit benefits, reduce eligibility or cut provider payments." I think the fundamental issue here are the resources," Kasich said. " I don't want to give you exactly the numbers, but it's about half the resources in this bill that were in Obamacare. Now, I can tell you we can do with less resources, but you can't do it overnight and you can't give people a $3,000 or 4,000 health insurance policy. You know where they're going to be? They're going to be living in the emergency rooms again."" This was not great, and it's going to go to the Senate, and I hope and pray that they write a bigger bill," Kasich said. On ABC's " This Week with George Stephanopoulos" moderate Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine addressed concerns about the bill, saying she hoped it would eventually expand coverage for those still not covered under Obamacare. " The Senate is starting from scratch," Collins said. " We're going to draft our own bill. And I'm convinced that we're going to take the time to do it right." White House chief of staff Reince Priebus told Fox News' Chris Wallace on Sunday that he expected the Senate to make any improvements to the House bill and bring it to a House and Senate conference committee. Asked whether he thought the bill, which was narrowly passed by the House, would become a drag on Republicans in 2018 as Democrats suggest, Priebus said sometimes in life, "you have to do what's right, not what's politically expedient."" We believe this is going to be a better product," he said. " And by the time the people see that premiums are lower, it's a better service, there are more options and more choices, they're going to reward the Republicans that stood up and said, ' We are not going to see the Obamacare system, which is failing and collapsing, continue any longer. We're going to do something better, and we're going to do our job as legislators to get this thing done.' I think that the Republican Party will be rewarded."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/lSvC-WOFjLI/index.html
Inside Politics with John King, Monday - Friday 12:00pm ET & Sundays 8:00am ETHow House Republicans won those final health care votes By John King, CNN Chief National Correspondent Updated 1535 GMT (2335 HKT) May 7, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. How House GOP got to 217 in health care vote How House GOP got to 217 in health care vote 03:58 Story highlights House leaders got to 217 votes by relying on one very motivating factor: fundraising For some members, it's all about helping their re-election chances -- and that takes cash Washington ( CNN) How did House GOP leaders win the final votes to pass their health care legislation? Will President Trump make a big decision on climate change before he meets with the Pope? And what do Palm Beach and New Jersey have in common? These questions and more are answered in this week's " Inside Politics" forecast, where you get tomorrow's headlines today. 1) Money helps sway House health care vote ... Read More Promises of what political consultants call "air cover" helped House GOP leaders get to the finish line in last week's Obamacare repeal-and-replace vote. House members worried that a "yes" vote would be unpopular in their districts were told by Speaker Paul Ryan that they would get help with TV ads and other re-election support, CNN's Phil Mattingly reports. " They know that they will need [help] -- especially for the 14 Republicans who voted yes and come from Hillary Clinton districts," Mattingly said. " Where is that money going to come from? " You have outside groups -- American Action Network has launched a $2 million ad buy in 21 districts. I'm told they promised President Trump would be available to campaign and raise (money)."2) ... but the Senate is very different It's been awhile since a major piece of legislation cleared the House, and because of that it has been awhile since we've been reminded of how differently things work in the Senate. The rules are different, and so are the margins: Republicans have just a 52-48 edge, so one or two senators can have oversized influence. Also important: Senators run statewide, not in the carefully drawn districts that protect most House members. Already, some of these differences are evident. How strong the Trump economy really is How strong the Trump economy really is GOP Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, for example, don't like that the House bill cuts funding for Planned Parenthood. Look for that to change in the Senate version. And several GOP lawmakers from states hard hit by the opioid crisis don't like that the House bill allows states to drop a requirement that drug treatment be covered under health care plans. So look for that, too, to be among the many changes coming as the debate shifts to the Senate.3) Why Pope Francis is closely watching this Trump decision There is a robust debate in the Trump White House about whether to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate change accord that the Obama administration helped negotiate. Conservatives say it is a campaign promise the President must keep. Environmentalists are hoping Ivanka Trump sways her father to take a different course on climate change than he did as a candidate. A decision on the Paris deal is due soon, and Julie Pace of the Associated Press says it could make the President's first overseas trip even more interesting. On his itinerary is a face-to-face with one of the world's most prominent climate change activists: Pope Francis. Fareed: Trump is turning allies against US Fareed: Trump is turning allies against US " There is an interest in trying to get a decision done before he heads to Europe later this month," Pace reports. " He will be meeting with some leaders of countries who are part of it (the Paris agreement). One of the big advocates that he would be meeting with is, of course, Pope Francis. So this will be just one really fascinating element of what will be an incredibly interesting meeting between the Pope and the president."4) Is Trump considering Democrats for high-level vacancies? There are still dozens and dozens of high-level vacancies throughout the Trump administration, and the White House is getting some interesting advice from Republican friends: Hire some Democrats. Jonathan Martin of The New York Times reports that GOP strategists think the party could improve its odds of holding the House in next year's midterm elections if the President offered jobs to a few Democrats who serve in districts where Trump won. The strategy: Those are districts the GOP would have good odds of winning if longtime Democratic incumbents were not on the ballot. This isn't the first time the White House floated this idea. " Back during December, there was an effort to get Democratic senators into the cabinet. That fizzled," Martin says. " I've learned this week, actually, that the House GOP sought to get Reince Priebus, the chief of staff at the white house, to appoint house Democrats, too ... there is one job that is still open, as we know: Army Secretary."5) How Mother's Day impacts the weekend White House President Trump is spending the weekend at his private golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, and that could be a sign of things to come. His Mar-a- Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida has been Trump's weekend White House for much of his young presidency. But Margaret Talev of Bloomberg Politics notes that the property is seasonal -- and due to close for the year next Sunday -- Mother's Day. " We haven't heard yet officially from the White House whether President Trump will be marking that, but he does most years and we'll now see the action and guest list shift up to Bedminister," explains Talev. It remains to be seen how that move would affect Trump's weekend activities -- or his guest lists.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/VzkWEb9rSOk/index.html
Sally Yates told White House aides Flynn was a Russian blackmail risk. 18 days later, he was fired. Sally Yates told White House aides Flynn was a Russian blackmail risk. 18 days later, he was fired. By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 0343 GMT (1143 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Source: Obama warned Trump not to hire Flynn Source: Obama warned Trump not to hire Flynn 02:43 ( CNN)18 days. That's how long it took the White House to fire national security adviser Michael Flynn after acting Attorney General Sally Yates met with White House counsel Don Mc Gahn to inform him that Flynn wasn't telling the truth about his interactions with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak and, as a result, represented a blackmail risk." We believed that General Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians," Yates said in a Senate subcommittee hearing aimed at gathering details of the Russian hacking of the 2016 election on Monday in Washington. She added: " Logic would tell you that you don't want the national security adviser to be in a position where the Russians have leverage over him." Yates: It appears that Flynn lied to VP Pence Yates: It appears that Flynn lied to VP Pence 00:54 Yates noted that she met with Mc Gahn on January 26 and again on January 27 to inform him of the fact that Flynn's assertions -- as relayed in the media by Vice President Mike Pence -- were simply not accurate. She did so both because she thought the Justice Department owed it to the vice president to tell him what they knew but also because they knew the Russians knew of Flynn's problems. Yates added that Mc Gahn asked for -- and was granted -- the chance to examine the materials that led the Justice Department to their conclusion. She said she did not know whether Mc Gahn or anyone else in the White House actually reviewed those materials. Yates also repeatedly said she decided to inform Mc Gahn and the White House of what they knew of Flynn so the White House could "take action." Read More Related: The many paths from Trump to Russia Put aside everything else -- Republican attempts to steer the hearing to the unmasking of Trump campaign officials, incidental collection, leaks and leakers -- that transpired in Monday's hearing. The only thing that really matters going forward is what led Mc Gahn and the rest of the White House to not act on the warnings -- and evidence -- provided to them regarding Flynn for more than two weeks. And, when they did finally fire Flynn, why was the reason cited by the White House the fact that he had not told Pence the truth regarding meetings with Kislyak? After all, the White House -- via Mc Gahn -- knew that information from January 26 onward. Here's Trump's explanation, from a February 16 press conference, about when he learned about Flynn's conversations with Kislyak (it's long but important to excerpt broadly from): Trump: Press illegally gets information Trump: Press illegally gets information 02:34" As far as the general's concerned, when I first heard about it, I said huh, that doesn't sound wrong. My counsel came, Don Mc Gahn, White House Counsel, and he told me and I asked him, he can speak very well for himself. He said he doesn't think anything is wrong, you know, really didn't think. It was really, what happened after that but he didn't think anything was done wrong. I didn't either because I waited a period of time and I started to think about it, I said 'well I don't see' -- to me, he was doing the job. The information was provided by -- who I don't know, Sally Yates. And I was a little surprised because I said 'doesn't sound like he did anything wrong there.' But he did something wrong with respect to the vice president and I thought that was not acceptable. As far as -- as far as the actual making the call, fact I've watched various programs and I've read various articles where he was just doing his job. That was very normal. You know, first everybody got excited because they thought he did something wrong. After they thought about it, it turned out he was just doing his job. So -- and I do. And by the way, with all of that being said, I do think he's a fine man." That just doesn't make sense. Trump says that the information provided to Mc Gahn by Yates "doesn't sound like he did anything wrong there." But, according to Yates' testimony -- under oath! -- what she told Mc Gahn was that Flynn was compromised by the Russians and was a potential blackmail risk. So, either one of these two things is true: Trump didn't see Yates' warning as passed to Mc Gahn as cause for removal of Flynn. Trump didn't believe Yates was telling the truth about Flynn. There's just no other options to explain why it took 18 days between Yates' telling Mc Gahn that one of Trump's top national security advisers was compromised by Russia and that adviser being fired. And that, when Flynn was fired, the reason given was that he had not told the truth to the vice president as opposed to the fact that he was a prime target for Russian blackmail. Timeline: What we know about the Trump campaign, his administration and Russia It's no longer an acceptable answer to say -- as Trump and White House advisers like Sean Spicer and Reince Priebus have -- that the information passed from Yates to Mc Gahn was insignificant. Unless Yates is lying -- and no one has suggested she is -- then what she told Mc Gahn on January 26 (and followed up on the next day) was of huge importance." Why wouldn't you fire a guy who did this?" Sen. Al Franken wondered aloud at the hearing. Why didn't Trump act? That's the question the White House has to answer. And soon.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Rl9vsGSLsIM/index.html
Obama warned Trump about hiring Flynn Obama warned Trump about hiring Flynn By Jim Acosta and Jeremy Diamond, CNN Updated 2204 GMT (0604 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Spicer: It's true, Obama wasn't a fan of Flynn Spicer: It's true, Obama wasn't a fan of Flynn 00:51 Story highlights Obama warned Trump about Flynn on November 10 Trump did not heed Obama's counsel on Flynn Washington ( CNN) Then- President Barack Obama warned President-elect Donald Trump in November against hiring retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as his national security adviser, former Obama administration officials confirmed to CNN Monday. Obama warned Trump about Flynn during their Oval Office meeting on November 10, days after Trump was elected president." Given the importance of the job, the President through there were better people for it, and that Flynn wasn't up for the job," a former senior Obama administration official told CNN Monday. Other former Obama administration officials said then- Director of National Intelligence James Clapper didn't think highly of Flynn, and in fact was the person who recommended Flynn's firing as DNI in 2014. Flynn's focus was generally limited to terrorism and didn't know much about many other issues important for the national security adviser job, such as China, the officials said. But at least one former Obama official disputed that, saying Obama's concerns were not related to the firing of Flynn from the Defense Intelligence Agency but rather in the course of the investigation into Russian interference into the 2016 election. Read More" Flynn's name kept popping up," according to a senior Obama administration source. Trump transition officials warned Flynn about Russia communications The White House confirmed later Monday that Obama raised concerns about Flynn during his Oval Office sitdown with Trump in November." It's true President Obama made it known he wasn't exactly a fan of Gen. Flynn's," press secretary Sean Spicer said. He said the concerns shouldn't have come as a surprise, since Flynn was an "outspoken critic" of the Obama administration's shortcomings on foreign policy. Spicer said if the Obama administration was "truly concerned" about Flynn, there are steps it could have taken, including suspending his security clearance. Flynn previously served as the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency under Obama until he was reportedly forced out of the post 2014 over internal disagreements over policy and management. Trump did not heed Obama's counsel on Flynn, bringing aboard the former military intelligence officer who supported Trump during his campaign as his national security adviser. Trump fired Flynn 24 days later when news broke of Flynn's conversations with Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak. News of the warning comes as former acting Attorney General Sally Yates is set to testify before Congress on Monday about the concerns she expressed to Trump administration officials about Flynn's contacts with Russian officials, namely with Kislyak. NBC News was the first to report the warning. Yates, in her role as acting attorney general, warned White House counsel Don Mc Gahn on January 26 that Flynn was lying when he denied -- both publicly and privately -- that he discussed US sanctions on Russia with Kislyak. It wasn't until weeks later that Trump asked for Flynn's resignation, only after news surfaced that Flynn had misled Vice President Mike Pence about his conversations with Kislyak. Trump: I feel badly for Michael Flynn Trump: I feel badly for Michael Flynn 01:31 According to five current and former intelligence officials, their concern started around the time Flynn went to Moscow for the 10th anniversary gala of the state-sponsored news agency Russia Today. At that dinner, the former high-ranking intelligence official was seated right next to Russian President Vladimir Putin. He also had contact with Kislyak after the trip. Former US officials were highly suspicious of Kislyak and his motives, and there were concerns Flynn didn't seem to understand the dangers in the conversations, the officials said. As was reported over the weekend, even Trump's own team was concerned enough to request a CIA profile of the Russian ambassador to help illustrate to Flynn he was taking a big chance in his interactions with Kislyak. Yates' testimony on Monday will be the first time she speaks publicly about her warnings to the White House about Flynn. The Senate and House intelligence committees are continuing to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election, including potential coordination between Russian officials and the Trump campaign or people close to the campaign. Congressional investigators have so far homed in on Flynn, Carter Page, a former foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign, and Roger Stone, who informally advised Trump during his presidential run. While Trump asked for Flynn's resignation, he has not abandoned his former national security adviser altogether. Trump on Monday morning sought to get ahead of Yates' testimony, taking to Twitter to deflect criticism that he or his administration should have kept Flynn out of the top national security post from the outset. General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration - but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W. H. Council.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 " General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama administration -- but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that," Trump said in his first missive." Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W. H. Counsel," he tweeted. Flynn began advising Trump on national security in early 2016 and soon became a constant presence by Trump's side as he crisscrossed the country from rally to rally. He frequently introduced Trump on the campaign trail, delivering introductory remarks rife with criticism of the Obama administration's foreign policy and of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. Flynn often led Trump supporters in chants of " Lock her up!" as he accused her of corruption and negligence in her use of a private email server. Trump came to value Flynn not only for his like-minded view of global affairs but for his loyalty throughout the campaign. CNN's Jake Tapper, Kevin Liptak, Pamela Brown and Gloria Borger contributed to this report. This story has been updated to reflect CNN's latest reporting.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/JKuGnppItno/index.html
White House highlights Clapper's lack of evidence on Trump- Russia collusion W. H. highlights Clapper's lack of evidence on Trump- Russia collusion By Eli Watkins and Jim Acosta, CNN Updated 0913 GMT (1713 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Clapper: Putin sought to advantage Trump (15 Videos) Clapper: Putin sought to advantage Trump Yates, Cruz spar over Trump's travel ban Graham promises to get to bottom of unmasking Flynn: Who knew what, when? Was Trump's Yates tweet witness intimidation? Source: Obama warned Trump not to hire Flynn Yates: Flynn vulnerable to blackmail Yates: It appears that Flynn lied to VP Pence Cruz hints that Yates acted on partisanship Clapper: I did make unmasking request Yates defends decision to defy Trump travel ban Graham: White House acted properly on Flynn Yates' opening statement to Senate committee Spicer: Trump's Yates tweet speaks for itself Sally Yates to testify on Flynn's Russia ties Story highlights Trump celebrated Clapper's comments Clapper said he was unaware of the FBI investigation into potential collusion Washington ( CNN) The White House responded to hours of Senate testimony Monday by saying there was still no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee that he was not aware of any evidence demonstrating collusion, but also said he had been unaware of an FBI investigation into the matter until FBI Director James Comey announced it to the public at a House hearing in March. Clapper previously made a similar comment in an interview on NBC. Pressed by Sen. Lindsey Graham if that claim was still accurate, Clapper said, " It is." Sally Yates says she warned White House that Flynn was a blackmail risk On the same matter, former acting Attorney General Sally Yates said her answer would require revealing classified information and noted that Clapper had just said he was unaware of the FBI's investigation. Read More President Donald Trump called Clapper's comments a full dismissal of potential collusion and dismissed the entire issue outright in the series of tweets after the hearing, referring to information from the day's events as "old news," "a total hoax" and "# Fake News!" Trump also changed the header photo on his personal Twitter account to one including a block with the text of his first tweet about Clapper and "the fake media." Director Clapper reiterated what everybody, including the fake media already knows- there is "no evidence" of collusion w/ Russia and Trump.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 Sally Yates made the fake media extremely unhappy today --- she said nothing but old news!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 The Russia- Trump collusion story is a total hoax, when will this taxpayer funded charade end?— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 Biggest story today between Clapper & Yates is on surveillance. Why doesn't the media report on this? # Fake News!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 A White House official drew attention to this portion of the hearing as well, telling CNN that "the bottom line" on the Russia inquiries is the question of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. " President Obama's former director of national intelligence and his former acting CIA director have both said they have seen no evidence of collusion," the official said. " Clapper repeated his assertion today." The official also pointed to statements from some Democrats who said they had not seen evidence of collusion either.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/jN-UdqKOPGc/index.html
Jimmy Carter on Sanders: ' Can y'all see why I voted for him?' Jimmy Carter on Sanders: ' Can y'all see why I voted for him?' By Eli Watkins, CNN Updated 0124 GMT (0924 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Former President Jimmy Carter discusses his cancer diagnosis during a press conference at the Carter Center on August 20, 2015 in Atlanta, Georgia. Story highlights The former Democratic President seemed to support Sanders Like Sanders, Carter has long railed against the influence of money in politics Washington ( CNN) Former President Jimmy Carter seems to be a fan of Sen. Bernie Sanders. The two spoke together Monday evening at a Carter Center discussion about politics, human rights and working towards global peace. Speaking in a familiar refrain, Sanders bemoaned the United States' relatively low voter turnout rates and said it was a boon for conservative politicians. " Can y'all see why I voted for him?" Carter said as Sanders concluded. Carter's comments, which received light laughter at the event, were apparently the first time he revealed his 2016 Democratic primary choice in public. Read More The two spoke at length about their worries about the current direction of the country and human rights across the globe, seeming in agreement on a range of major issues. Early on in the race for the Democratic nomination, Carter said he believed former secretary of state Hillary Clinton would get the nomination "because money dominates, and she has an inside track to the massive amounts that are going to pour into the Democratic Party side." Political observers have noted for decades the tension between Carter and the Clintons. Carter said closer to the general election that he intended to vote for the eventual Democratic nominee, and said again he believed Clinton would win, while noting Sanders' support among young voters. At the time, he also said he'd rather vote for then-candidate Donald Trump over Sen. Ted Cruz. Like Sanders, Carter has long railed against the influence of money in politics. He said in 2015 that the US was essentially no longer democratic in nature." Now it's just an oligarchy with unlimited political bribery," Carter said. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/HPx_oK6pdTw/index.html
Donald Trump Jr. calls on Indiana Republicans to 'stay active' Donald Trump Jr. calls on Indiana Republicans to 'stay active' By Betsy Klein, CNN Updated 0109 GMT (0909 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Donald Trump Jr. spoke to Indiana Republicans on Monday evening He is the President's eldest son ( CNN) Donald Trump Jr. took an Indiana victory lap Monday, speaking at the state Republican party's spring dinner just more than one year after the state's primary propelled his father toward the presidential nomination. The President's eldest son issued a call to action to the Indiana Republicans, noting that recent victories like his father's 2016 win, the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch and congressional GOP majorities have "reinvigorated" the Democratic party in recent months. " We can't sit back on those victories, we have to stay active, because the one thing that I've seen is the other side, they've used this to reinvigorate their party," Trump said. " Now luckily for us, I think their message totally faulty and flawed. I don't think their message is particularly good or at all in touch with real Americans." Trump said he wasn't "sick of winning yet," subtly jabbing the Washington establishment in both parties." We can't take majorities in the House and the Senate and say, ' Hey, they're always going to do what they want,' because most of them, on both sides, are still in that DC mindset that I think my father will break," he said. Read More Trump, who is running the Trump Organization with brother Eric, has maintained a high profile in the political realm since his father took office, making a variety of political appearances, including a March speech to the Dallas County GOP and campaigning for Montana Republican House candidate Greg Gianforte last month. He'll return to Montana with Gianforte -- who is running in a May special election for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's seat -- on Thursday. The President's son has said he is open to the possibility of seeking office in the future. " Maybe someday," he told the Associated Press last month. " It's not something I'm doing now. But you never know, it's fascinating stuff." On Monday, Trump praised the Hoosier State, noting that he spoke with both Vice President Mike Pence and basketball legend and Trump supporter Bobby Knight ahead of his Indianapolis speech. He also hit Gianforte's Montana opponent, Democratic House candidate Rob Quist, citing his record on guns and immigration." I'm saying I think they're (the Democrats) still missing it. They didn't get the message during the election and they still don't get it today. But it's easy to run a flawed candidate if you're just throwing a lot of money at it," Trump said. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/57qhM3lAVZk/index.html
Rep. Evan Jenkins to challenge Sen. Joe Manchin By Ashley Killough, CNN Updated 0106 GMT (0906 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. US Senator Joe Manchin leaves after a meeting with US President-elect Donald Trump at Trump Tower December 12, 2016 in New York. Story highlights The two will go head-to-head in West Virginia Jenkins criticized Manchin in a nearly three-minute announcement video A former governor with deep ties to the state, Manchin has wide name recognition Coal company employee Bo Copley also announced he plans to run Washington ( CNN) Republican Rep. Evan Jenkins announced Monday that he plans to challenge Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin in West Virginia, a seat that Republicans consider within their reach in next year's midterm elections. Jenkins, who represents the state's 3rd Congressional District, criticized Manchin in a nearly three-minute announcement video, painting the incumbent senator as a Washington insider and knocking him for supporting Hillary Clinton in 2016. A former governor with deep ties to the state, Manchin has wide name recognition in West Virginia but faces re-election as a Democrat in a state that voted for President Donald Trump by 42 points over Clinton last November. Manchin charts own path in Trump-era West Virginia Jenkins, who previously served as a Democrat in the West Virginia Senate, was elected to the US House in 2014 as a Republican, defeating incumbent Democratic Rep. Nick Rahall. Jenkins was re-elected in 2016. Read More The video also hits Manchin on his 2013 proposal to expand background checks for gun purchases following the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre in Newtown, Connecticut. Jefrey Pollock, a spokesperson for Manchin's campaign, did not address each claim in the video, but sought to highlight Manchin's bipartisan record. " Senator Manchin has always been an independent fighter for West Virginia, willing to take on either party to do what is right for his state," Pollock said in a statement. " He looks forward to seeing the results of the GOP primary and having the voters review his clear record of delivering results for the people of West Virginia." Since Trump was elected, Manchin has sought to work with the president on a number of issues, even bucking his own party at times to support many of Trump's picks for his Cabinet and the Supreme Court. Jenkins also sought to align himself with Trump in the new video by including footage of him standing behind Trump at the White House when the President signed a law to repeal an Obama-era rule on the coal industry. ( Manchin, along with West Virginia lawmakers, was at the same photo opportunity, but was not included in Jenkins' video.) Manchin is seeking a second full term. He first came to the US Senate in 2010 to fill the seat left vacant by Sen. Robert Byrd, and won election to a full term in 2012. Last week a former coal company employee, Bo Copley, also announced that he plans to run in the Republican primary. Copley became well-known in West Virginia last year after confronting Hillary Clinton over a statement she made about the coal industry. State Attorney General Patrick Morrisey is also considered a potential Republican challenger.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/CEKjbV_XPNA/index.html
Latest on Afghanistan options expected to hit Trump's desk this week Latest on Afghanistan options expected to hit Trump's desk this week By Barbara Starr, Jeremy Diamond, Kevin Liptak, Ryan Browne and Ehsan Popalzai, CNN Updated 0848 GMT (1648 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. US Defense Secretary Mattis visits Afghanistan US Defense Secretary Mattis visits Afghanistan 01:26 Story highlights President Trump is expected to receive proposals for a troop increase in Afghanistan this week It is unclear when Trump will make a formal decision ( CNN) The final proposals for a planned troop increase in Afghanistan are expected to cross President Donald Trump's desk this week. US officials say the likely range for the US troop increase in Afghanistan is between 3,000 and 5,000 troops, but could be as low as 1,500. The increase would be to accelerate training missions for Afghan forces and well as to fight the Taliban. The Afghan Ministry of Defense told CNN that it would support an increase in American troops. Trump has already given authority to set official troop levels in the fight against ISIS in Iraq and Syria to Secretary of Defense James Mattis. National security adviser H. R. Mc Master and Mattis favor the troop increase being discussed at the Pentagon and increasing the United States' financial investment in Afghanistan, according to a source familiar with the discussions. The same source said Trump's chief strategist, Steve Bannon, and his small contingent of nationalists are expected to push back when those recommendations hit Trump's desk. Read More Strategy options Additional strategy options being presented to Trump include an outline for dealing with the Taliban, including scaling up strikes against the militant group, according to two US officials familiar with the proposal. The proposed strategy will, however, maintain the Obama administration's push toward reconciliation between the Taliban and the Afghan government. It is unclear when Trump will make a formal decision. Afghan Ministry of Defense spokesman Gen. Dawlat Waziri told CNN that a troop increase would benefit Afghanistan and the international community. " Fights in Afghanistan are not domestic; it is international terrorism operating in Afghanistan," Waziri said. "[ The] US must finish terrorism in Afghanistan by assessing, advising and training Afghan security forces and make them strong to counter terrorism."' Another tough year' Mattis traveled to Afghanistan late last month to give the Afghan government his recommendations for US involvement moving forward. At the time he declined to share what those recommendations were. But he did say "we are under no illusions about the challenges associated with this mission," adding that "2017 is going to be another tough year for the valiant Afghan security forces and the international troops who have stood and who will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with Afghanistan against terrorism." US troops have been fighting for nearly 16 years in Afghanistan, where the government and its coalition allies are battling a resilient Taliban as well as other terror groups, including ISIS. US Defense Secretary Mattis visits Afghanistan In February, Gen. John Nicholson, commander of Resolute Support and US forces in Afghanistan, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that leadership assesses "the current security situation in Afghanistan as a stalemate." He cited the government's stability, Afghan military casualties, the influence of Pakistan, Russia and Iran, "the convergence" of various terror groups, the narcotics trade and corruption. There are 8,400 US troops in Afghanistan and 6,000 troops from NATO and allied countries. Nicholson said the coalition faces "a shortfall of a few thousand troops" to break the "stalemate." Theresa Whelan, the acting assistant secretary of defense for special operations, told lawmakers on the Senate Armed Services Committee last Thursday that the Pentagon's proposals are intended "to move beyond the stalemate and also to recognize that Afghanistan is a very important partner for the United States in a very tricky region."" We want to maintain that partnership with Afghanistan and we want to ensure that Afghanistan reaches its potential, so that's the objective of the strategy," she added. Insurgent gains From January 1 through November 12 last year, 6,785 Afghan national security forces were killed, according to the latest quarterly report of the special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction. US Marines return to volatile Afghan province Casualties among international troops have dropped dramatically since the NATO-led effort shifted from a combat role to an advisory role in 2014. The agency's analysis of information from US forces in Afghanistan "suggests that the security situation in Afghanistan has not improved this quarter."" The numbers of the Afghan security forces are decreasing, while both casualties and the number of districts under insurgent control or influence are increasing," according to the January 30 report to Congress.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/HgYiyH9FkvI/index.html
DC festival showcases political activism, healthy living DC festival showcases political activism, healthy living and music By Deena Zaru, CNN Updated 0051 GMT (0851 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Photos: R& B singer Solange performs songs from her latest album, " A Seat at the Table," including her hit single, " Cranes in the Sky." Nearly 10,000 millennials gathered at the 5th annual Broccoli City music festival at Gateway DC in southeast Washington on Saturday, May 6. The green-conscious festival, which promotes healthy living, was headlined by Solange and Rae Sremmurd. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Festival attendees gather to watch the shows. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Hip-hop duo Rae Sremmurd close out the Broccoli City music festival with an energetic performance of their most popular songs, including " Black Beatles." Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Rapper Lil Yachty performs on the City Stage. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: North Carolina rapper Rapsody performs. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Chaz French, a rapper from Washington, D. C., performs on the main stage. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Rapper 21 Savage performs his most popular songs, including " X," on the Broccoli City main stage. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: South Carolina rapper Nick Grant performs during the late afternoon. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: British singer-songwriter Nao performs. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Crowds gather for the final performances of the night. Hide Caption 10 of 10 Story highlights Brandon Mc Eachern founded Broccoli City in 2007 to raise awareness about healthy eating The music festival brought local food vendors, artists, a marketplace and a star-studded lineup Washington ( CNN) Nearly 10,000 millennials gathered Saturday at a park in southeast Washington to celebrate political activism, healthy living and music at the 5th annual Broccoli City music festival, which punctuated a weeklong series of events driven by a concern for the well-being of urban communities under the Trump administration. As President Donald Trump settles into his fourth month in the White House, DC rapper Chaz French told CNN that while "it's still f--- Donald Trump," the energy among activists is shifting from mere opposition into a call for action." F--- Donald Trump. We don't have give a f--- about what's going on in the White House right now in the sense of we know that that s--- it's not gonna last long," French said following his performance at the festival. Chaz French performs at the Broccoli City music festival." We give a f--- about these kids in southeast who can't eat," he said. " We give a f--- about these kids in northeast who feel like this is the only place they will ever see. We give a f--- about the homeless people who are talented and didn't never have a way out." Chaz French showing love for @broccolicity @chazfrenchmusic #broccolicityfestival #broccolicity #chazfrench #dchiphop #bcfest2017 A post shared by (@deenazeina) on May 7, 2017 at 10:40am PDT After noting the disparity of food access in urban communities, Brandon Mc Eachern founded Broccoli City in 2007 to raise awareness about healthy eating and give young people the tools to advocate for sustainable living, environmental sustainability, renewable energy and economic opportunity. Read More" When you think about food access, when you think about sustainable education, at the end of the day what you're talking about is just a good foundation," Mc Eachern told CNN. The music festival was held at Gateway DC, a park in the backyard of a vacant asylum, bringing local food vendors, local artists, an outdoor marketplace and a star-studded lineup — including Solange, Rae Sremmurd, Lil Yachty and 21 Savage — to a community that is often overlooked by performers. The full lineup included French, Sir the Baptist, Rapsody, Nao, Aluna George, Kevin Abstract, Smino, Nick Grant and Rejjie Snow. @sirthebaptist explains why he loves Broccoli City #bcfest2017 #broccolicity #broccolicityfestival #chicagohiphop #sirthebaptist @broccolicity A post shared by (@deenazeina) on May 8, 2017 at 12:00pm PDT " I love Broccoli City because it shows us the economic structure that we need for hip-hop," Chicago R& B artist Sir the Baptist told CNN following his performance. " It shows us that, hey don't just take festivals to great places. ... Take it to the communities that really need it." Rep. Dwight Evans, D- Pennsylvania, who participated in a festival panel about access to healthy foods with rapper Styles P, said that he noticed a shift in energy among activists." I do think that (activism) is transforming to another stage, and that stage is for people to understand that this is their democracy and they should take ownership over it," Evans said. " They have a right and an obligation to be vigilant and stay on top of things." Festival-goes pose for a photo. Sir the Baptist, who slammed Trump for being "way out of touch" with the African- American community as a candidate, said the festival reminds him of the work that needs to be done in Chicago." In Chicago we have what we call a food desert, where for a certain amount of blocks and miles sometimes you can't get healthy food," he said. " And it's amazing that in this time and this era we would have sort of a Third World country right there in Chicago where you can't get healthy food." The main stage at the Broccoli City music festival. Last Monday, the Trump administration scaled back school meal nutritional requirements that were set by the Obama White House in 2012 and championed by former first lady Michelle Obama. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said in a news release that last Monday's proclamation is the result of "years of feedback from students, schools, and food service experts about the challenges they are facing in meeting the final regulations for school meals." Rapsody performs at the Broccoli City music festival. CNN has reached out to the White House for comment and has not yet received a response. Mc Eachern said that for the first time, the festival spanned an entire week and featured a 5 K fitness run, a vegan food festival and " Broccoli Con" — a series of panel discussions and conversations to provide young people with enough time to network and the tools to become more politically active in their communities." We're at the point where we can't just talk about it," North Carolina rapper Rapsody told CNN. " We have our moments to feel and live in our moments, but now it's time to take action. Talking about it, just tweeting about it, that doesn't do much to solve the problem."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/g9IeysVCapM/index.html
Sally Yates says she warned White House that Flynn was a blackmail risk By Tom Lo Bianco and Stephen Collinson, CNN Updated 0158 GMT (0958 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Yates: Flynn vulnerable to blackmail (15 Videos) Yates: Flynn vulnerable to blackmail Yates, Cruz spar over Trump's travel ban Graham promises to get to bottom of unmasking Flynn: Who knew what, when? Was Trump's Yates tweet witness intimidation? Source: Obama warned Trump not to hire Flynn Yates: It appears that Flynn lied to VP Pence Cruz hints that Yates acted on partisanship Clapper: I did make unmasking request Clapper: Putin sought to advantage Trump Yates defends decision to defy Trump travel ban Graham: White House acted properly on Flynn Yates' opening statement to Senate committee Spicer: Trump's Yates tweet speaks for itself Sally Yates to testify on Flynn's Russia ties Story highlights Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates spoke at a Senate subcommittee Monday President Donald Trump tweeted about the hearing hours before it started ( CNN) Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates said Monday that she alerted the White House earlier this year that former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn could be "essentially blackmailed by the Russians."" We believed that Gen. Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians," Yates told a Senate judiciary subcommittee, in a high-profile hearing on Russian meddling into the US election. Yates told the panel that she had a meeting with White House Counsel Donald Mc Gahn on January 26 to tell him that she had information that statements by Vice President Mike Pence, based on his conversations with Flynn, were false. She was joined in the meeting by a senior career official in the Justice Department." We weren't the only ones that knew all of this, that the Russians also knew about what General Flynn had done and the Russians also knew that General Flynn had misled the vice president and others," Yates said, relating the contents of her conversation with Mc Gahn. Yates was speaking at a hearing led by Sen. Lindsey Graham, who opened the hearing with an implicit rebuke of the President and his alternative explanations for the interference in the election. Read More The South Carolina Republican said the hacking was not the work of "some 400-pound guy sitting on a bed or any other country," a reference to a comment Trump has previously made on the matter. Flynn lawyer Robert Kelner said Monday after the hearing's conclusion that he is declining comment on Yates' testimony. Trump fired Flynn, a retired general, for failing to disclose discussions with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak about US sanctions against the Kremlin and for not telling the truth about them to Vice President Mike Pence. Yates did not say specifically that her concerns about Flynn's behavior was related to these calls, but she appeared to be implying that was the case. In her opening statement, Yates said that she planned to be as "fulsome and comprehensive as possible" within ethical and legal boundaries. Yates also warned in her opening testimony that there were some issues she could not address publicly because they involved classified information. Similarly, she said that as a former official she was not authorized to discuss Department of Justice or other executive branch deliberations. It was not immediately clear how those constraints would affect her testimony on the Flynn question. Neither Flynn nor Trump were directly referenced in her opening statement." The efforts by a foreign adversary to interfere and undermine our democratic processes — and those of our allies — pose a serious threat to all Americans," Yates said. Graham asked Yates whether she had any information about whether there was collusion between members of the Trump campaign and Russia." My answer to that question would require me to reveal classified information," Yates said. At one point in the hearing Graham asked both Clapper and Yates how information about Flynn's conversations with the Russian ambassador, that eventually led to his sacking, made it into the newspapers. Trump asked a similar question earlier on Twitter. Both former official said they did not know how that happened. Trump went on the offensive on Twitter Monday morning, hours before the hearing began, blaming the Obama administration for Flynn's security clearance and asking the committee to question Yates over leaking classified information to the media. " General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration - but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that," Trump wrote, adding later, " Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W. H. Council." A White House official told CNN that the administration plans to rebut Yates by employing two strategies: Calling into question her objectivity by arguing she is a partisan Democrat and questioning the timeline of events she is expected to present. RELATED: Five things to watch at the Sally Yates hearing The Senate judiciary committee's crime and terrorism subcommittee also heard from former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, who spoke in advance of Yates. He testified that he did not know about the FBI investigation into Russian meddling in the election and whether there were any links to the Trump campaign until its existence was announced in a congressional hearing by FBI Director James Comey in March." During my tenure as DNI, it was my practice to defer to the FBI director -- both (former FBI) Director ( Robert) Mueller and Director Comey -- on whether, when, and to what extent they would inform me about such investigations," Clapper said. Trump hailed Clapper's comments and said they backed his claim that there was no evidence to support allegations of collusion between his campaign and the Russian government." Director Clapper reiterated what everybody, including the fake media already knows- there is "no evidence" of collusion w/ Russia and Trump," Trump said in the first of a series of tweets after the hearing. Director Clapper reiterated what everybody, including the fake media already knows- there is "no evidence" of collusion w/ Russia and Trump.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump) May 8, 2017 Likewise, a White House official drew attention to Clapper's comments and added: " Remember, the bottom line w/ the Russia stuff is the question of collusion during the campaign." Clapper issued a clarion call for vigilance over Russian election interference before it further eroded US democracy." They must be congratulating themselves for having exceeded their wildest expectations," he said. " They are now emboldened to continue such activities in the future, both here and around the world, and to do so even more intensely." Graham, the leader of Monday's hearing, also invited former President Barack Obama's national security adviser, Susan Rice, to testify with Yates and Clapper, but she rejected the invitation through her lawyer, noting the last-minute timing of the invitation. A source familiar with Rice's discussions told CNN that when Graham invited her, Rice believed it was a bipartisan overture and was prepared to accept. However, ranking Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse indicated to her that the invitation was made without his agreement, as he believed her presence was not relevant to the topic of the hearing, according to the source. Of the four former Trump campaign aides at the center of the Capitol Hill's Russia probes -- including former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, former foreign policy adviser Carter Page and former campaign adviser Roger Stone -- Flynn has generated the most heat following a steady stream of revelations. RELATED: In angry letter, Page discloses 'brief interactions' with Russian official Investigators on the House oversight committee raised the possibility last month that Flynn may have broken the law by not disclosing payments from RT- TV, widely considered by US officials to be a propaganda arm of the Russian government, on his 2016 national security clearance form. Flynn's lawyer at the time argued that Flynn had been open about his speech to RT- TV, including briefing the Defense Intelligence Agency on his trip. Yates' appearance itself had been fraught with drama ever since House intelligence chairman Devin Nunes' delayed her House hearing at the last minute, as part of a chaotic three-week stretch that saw the House Russia investigation almost fall apart and Nunes become the subject of a House ethics probe. The Washington Post reported at the time that the White House had blocked Yates by asserting executive privilege, which allows the President to stop a former aide from testifying. White House press secretary Sean Spicer vehemently denied the reports at the time and said that the White House actively supports Yates' testifying in public. A White House official said last week that the administration still wants Yates to testify in public and reaffirmed Spicer's comments. Graham and Whitehouse also said they heard of no effort to stop her from coming before them. Still, Democrats on the House Russia investigation are anxiously watching Monday's hearing: First, to see if Yates shows up and, second, to see how much she reveals publicly. CNN's Dan Merica and Jim Acosta contributed to this report. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/-EXgW9ZFbKo/index.html
Sally Yates explains why she won't defend travel ban Yates on Trump's travel ban: ' Arguments have to be based on truth' By Eli Watkins, CNN Updated 0010 GMT (0810 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Cruz hints that Yates acted on partisanship Cruz hints that Yates acted on partisanship 02:00 Story highlights Sally Yates was fired after directing the DOJ not to enforce Trump's executive order The former acting attorney general said she determined the order was unlawful Washington ( CNN) Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates on Monday defended her decision earlier this year not to enforce President Donald Trump's first ban on travel from several majority- Muslim nations, calling the order "unlawful."" All arguments have to be based on truth," Yates said during testimony before a Senate panel. " We're not just a law firm. We're the Department of Justice." In response to questions from two Texas Republicans at a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing, Yates painted a picture of a White House that kept the Department of Justice out of the loop ahead of the executive order's release. Sen. John Cornyn said her actions with regard to the executive order were "enormously disappointing" and accused her of undermining the powers of the President because she disagreed with Trump's order "as a policy matter." Yates told Cornyn that her actions were not done "purely as a policy matter" and cited her confirmation hearing, where she was asked about enforcing actions she viewed as against the law. Read More" I made a determination that I believed that it was unlawful," Yates said. " I also thought that it was inconsistent with the principles of the Department of Justice, and I said 'no.' And that's what I promised you I would do, and that's what I did." Later on in the hearing, Yates and Sen. Ted Cruz got into a back-and-forth over her disagreement with a decision by the department's Office of Legal Counsel that defended the order. RELATED: Trump administration defends travel ban in appeals court Yates said that although the office concluded the order was lawful, the office's focus was "narrow" and ignored contextual factors that she said undermined the legality of the order." In this particular instance, particularly where we were talking about a fundamental issue of religious freedom -- not the interpretation of some arcane statute, but religious freedom -- it was appropriate for us to look at the intent behind the President's actions," Yates said. Cruz asked, " In the over 200 years of the Department of Justice history, are you aware of any instance in which the Department of Justice has formally approved the legality of a policy, and three days later the attorney general has directed the department not to follow that policy and to defy that policy?"" I'm not," Yates responded. " But I'm also not aware of a situation where the office of legal counsel was advised not to tell the attorney general about it until after it was over."" I would note that might be the case if there's reason to suspect partisanship," Cruz said. On CNN's " Erin Burnett Out Front," Democratic Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse criticized Cruz for his comments alleging that Yates was motivated by partisanship." I think it's not only wrong," Whitehouse said. " I think it's really low. This is a woman who has worked in the Department of Justice under Republican and Democratic administrations without blemish for 27 years." In an exchange with Democratic Sen. Amy Klobuchar, Yates said she did not know about the travel ban before it was issued." I learned about this from media reports," Yates said. During his campaign, Trump called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on." Although the White House has denied Trump's two attempts to issue travel bans were in fact Muslim bans, many have pointed to his campaign rhetoric to argue the orders were just that. Shortly after Trump issued his first travel ban, Yates directed the Justice Department not to enforce it. Trump promptly fired her and appointed US Attorney Dana Boente to take her place until the Senate confirmed Jeff Sessions to be attorney general. Yates was an Obama appointee whom Trump asked to stay on as the temporary head of the Justice Department. She also emerged as a major figure in the controversy surrounding retired Gen. Michael Flynn's short time as national security adviser, and appeared before the subcommittee on Monday to testify about alleged Russian attempts to interfere in the 2016 election. RELATED: The many paths from Trump to Russia
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Sp-tk6g3CUE/index.html
' Melrose Place' actor Antonio Sabato Jr. is running for Congress' Melrose Place' actor Antonio Sabato Jr. is running for Congress By Dan Merica, CNN Updated 0248 GMT (1048 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. ' Melrose Place' actor: We need Trump (2016) ' Melrose Place' actor: We need Trump (2016) 00:42 Story highlights Actor Antonio Sabato Jr. spoke at the Republican National Convention His top fundraiser says he's running on his connections to President Donald Trump ( CNN) Actor Antonio Sabato Jr., an actor best known " General Hospital" and " Melrose Place" and who rose to political prominence after he spoke at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland last year, is running for Congress in California, according to the Republican operative who will act as his top fundraiser in the 2018 race. Sabato, who filed documents with the Federal Election Commission on Monday, was inspired to run for office during President Donald Trump's 2016 run, Charles Moran, his top fundraiser, told CNN on Monday, and will likely use his connections with the Trump administration -- and the President himself -- to differentiate himself with other Republicans in the district and the seat's current Democratic occupant, Rep. Julia Brownley." Brownley is a very junior member in the minority party," Moran said. " Contrast that against ... Antonio Sabato Jr. ... you have somebody who is a member of the majority party who has good relations with the Trump administration." Sabato's congressional campaign was first reported by the Los Angeles Times. Moran noted that Sabato "knows" the President and is close with one of his sons. Read More While the RNC catapulted Sabato to prominence, it also landed him in hot water, when he incorrectly told ABC News that former President Barack Obama was a Muslim." We had a Muslim president for 7 1/2 years," Sabato said. " I don't believe he is" a Christian. Brownley has represented the 26th congressional district since 2013. She was previously a member of the California State Assembly.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Dczmx3GJzEk/index.html
Why Trump didnt listen to all the people who told him to stay away from MIke Flynn Why Trump didn't listen to all the people who told him to stay away from Michael Flynn Analysis by Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1922 GMT (0322 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Obama warned Trump about Flynn, sources say (16 Videos) Obama warned Trump about Flynn, sources say Yates, Cruz spar over Trump's travel ban Graham promises to get to bottom of unmasking Flynn: Who knew what, when? Was Trump's Yates tweet witness intimidation? Source: Obama warned Trump not to hire Flynn Yates: Flynn vulnerable to blackmail Yates: It appears that Flynn lied to VP Pence Cruz hints that Yates acted on partisanship Clapper: I did make unmasking request Clapper: Putin sought to advantage Trump Yates defends decision to defy Trump travel ban Graham: White House acted properly on Flynn Yates' opening statement to Senate committee Spicer: Trump's Yates tweet speaks for itself Sally Yates to testify on Flynn's Russia ties Washington ( CNN) Two days after Donald Trump won the presidency, he came to visit the man he would replace at the White House. And, in that meeting, Barack Obama warned Trump about bringing Michael Flynn into his administration due to concerns about the retired general's ties to Russia. Trump did it anyway -- offering Flynn a job as national security adviser just eight days after meeting with Obama. The question now is why. Why, after being told by the outgoing president that Flynn was bad news -- in the sense that his name was all over the ongoing Justice Department investigation into Russia's attempts to hack the 2016 election -- did Trump ignore that advice within a week? And why has Trump continued to publicly defend Flynn in the face of repeated warnings -- from then acting Attorney General Sally Yates among others -- that his ties to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak represented a major problem? I put that question to several current and former Trump officials." I wish I knew," responded one. The others chose not to respond at all. Which is telling. ( Or maybe they are just extremely busy!) Read More So what could explain Trump's unwillingness to listen to Obama -- and others -- about Flynn? Here are a few theories:1. Dislike of Obama Spicer: It's true, Obama wasn't a fan of Flynn Spicer: It's true, Obama wasn't a fan of Flynn 00:51 White House press secretary Sean Spicer suggested Monday that while Obama did tell Trump about his concerns, it was seen through the lens of Flynn's active role as a Trump surrogate and critic of Obama. " President Obama made it known that he wasn't a fan of General Flynn," Spicer said Monday. He added that if Obama felt so strongly about Flynn then his administration should not have approved his security clearance in April 2016. There's no question that Trump, for all his insistence of how great he and Obama got along in their Nov. 10 meeting, viewed his election as a rejection of Obama's eight years in office. Taking Obama's advice on who to pick as one of his closest advisers would not be the sort of thing Trump would do.2. Loyalty Trump prizes loyalty above all else. And no one was more loyal to him than Flynn. Not only was Flynn an early endorser of Trump, he was one of his most aggressive and effective surrogates. By the end of the campaign, Flynn was Trump's de facto hype man/lead introducer at rallies. Trump doesn't forget that sort of loyalty. And he wants to reward it. 3. Trusts his own judgment Trump, as businessman and now a politician, believes that his gut is, in every situation, right. The campaign he ran, to his mind, was an affirmation of his gut being smarter and better than all of the advice the so-called professionals were offering. After all, they said he had no chance to win! Given that, why listen to all the voices telling him to get as far away from Flynn as possible? Why not, on the other hand, embrace Flynn as a symbol of the very outsider movement that elected him in the first place? While it's not clear exactly what motivated Trump to ignore all sorts of advice -- from President Obama on down -- about Flynn, it's very likely we won't ever know the real reason. Trump is not one to admit mistakes or explain himself. And he -- and his White House -- appear to be bunkered in when it comes to Flynn.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/90_4x5Cfq9M/index.html
Pruitt removes scientists from key EPA board Pruitt removes scientists from key EPA board By Rene Marsh and Theodore Schleifer, CNN Updated 1812 GMT (0212 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. EPA head questions climate change (17 Videos) EPA head questions climate change Di Caprio marches with climate protesters Thousands protest Trump's climate policies EPA removes climate change info from website As seas rise, fishermen deny climate change Trump vows to pull climate funds Trump order dismantles Obama climate policies Mulvaney: Not spending money on climate change Trump: Order will eliminate federal overreach Trump vs. American public on climate change Undeniable climate change facts How climate change is changing lives If coral reefs disappear, so will they2016: The hottest year on record Scientists agree: Climate change is man-made Oceans' food chain could collapse NASA: Rising sea levels more dangerous than thought Story highlights An EPA spokesman disputed that anyone was dismissed The EPA relies on independent science advisory committees to inform many of their decisions Washington ( CNN) The Environmental Protection Agency dismissed half the scientists who serve on a science review board that plays a crucial role in the work the EPA does, CNN has learned Monday. The EPA relies heavily on the scientific guidance of the group when it comes to air and water quality when making policy decisions. An EPA spokesman told CNN there are a total of 18 positions on this particular advisory board, and nine of those scientists were not renewed following the end of their three-year term. There is a notable ideological shift at the agency under the Trump administration and EPA head Scott Pruitt. Some in the scientific community say the dismissal of such a large number of scientists from the EPA's Board of Scientific Counselors is further evidence of that. Gretchen Goldman, research director at the Center for Science and Democracy asked, " What's the scientific reason for removing these individuals from this EPA science review board? It is rare to see such a large scale dismissal even in a presidential transition." She added, " The EPA is treating this scientific advisory board like its members are political appointees when these committees are not political positions. The individuals on these boards are appointed based on scientific expertise not politics. This move by the EPA is inserting politics into science. " Read More One scientist on the board said he had never before seen a person not reappointed to the board during a presidential transition. An EPA spokesman disputed that anyone was dismissed, saying that individuals on the science review board are appointed for a single three-year term, and that those whose terms are not renewed can re-apply to serve again in the future. In an emailed statement the EPA said, " EPA received hundreds of nominations to serve on the board, and we want to ensure fair consideration of all the nominees -- including those nominated who may have previously served on the panel -- and carry out a competitive nomination process." The EPA spokesperson said the agency wanted scientists from a more diverse background, including scientists from industry. Some of the current scientists on the board received notification via email that they would not be reappointed." We have been informed that your appointments are not being renewed and that the Agency will carry out a competitive nomination process to solicit new members rather than reappointing individuals who have already served a three-year term," read the message from the EPA sent to one scientist on the board and obtained by CNN. Courtney Flint, a professor at Utah State University on the Board of Scientific Counselors, said in a statement Monday that the news she received Friday "came as a surprise."" I do not think I am speculating when I say that this is a political move," she said. " I am hopeful that this advisory work can continue to be done by objective scientific experts that represent a cross-section of societal voices to inform policy." Pruitt has been attacked by critics for his closeness to the energy industry, raising concerns from environmentalists that he will move to replace the board members with more individuals from the energy sector." We are watching for how the process works to replace them," Goldman said. " We see this as part of larger pattern of trying to remove science from the making of policy at EPA."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Rq1YXzy8PMc/index.html
Five things we learned from the Sally Yates hearing Five things we learned from the Sally Yates hearing By Tom Lo Bianco, CNN Updated 0141 GMT (0941 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Yates: Flynn vulnerable to blackmail (15 Videos) Yates: Flynn vulnerable to blackmail Yates, Cruz spar over Trump's travel ban Graham promises to get to bottom of unmasking Flynn: Who knew what, when? Was Trump's Yates tweet witness intimidation? Source: Obama warned Trump not to hire Flynn Yates: It appears that Flynn lied to VP Pence Cruz hints that Yates acted on partisanship Clapper: I did make unmasking request Clapper: Putin sought to advantage Trump Yates defends decision to defy Trump travel ban Graham: White House acted properly on Flynn Yates' opening statement to Senate committee Spicer: Trump's Yates tweet speaks for itself Sally Yates to testify on Flynn's Russia ties ( CNN) Former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper have now filled in some key pieces of the sprawling puzzle presented by the Russia investigations. Here are the top five things we learned from their appearance before the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism on Monday:1. Yates delivered a forceful argument to the White House that then-national security adviser Michael Flynn could be blackmailed by the Russians As soon as she read the details of Michael Flynn's interview with the FBI, at the end of January, Yates called White House counsel Don Mc Gahn and said they needed to talk in private, she testified. Yates brought one of her top staffers with her on the afternoon of January 26 to meet with Mc Gahn and one of his top aides inside a secure facility on the White House grounds so they could discuss the FBI's interview of Flynn. It was then, she testified before senators Monday, that she warned Mc Gahn that President Donald Trump's national security adviser could easily become a blackmail target for Russians, based on the answers Flynn gave to the FBI. Read More" That created a compromised situation, a situation where the national security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians. Finally, we told them that we were giving them all of this information so that they could take action, the action that they deemed appropriate," she said. Mc Gahn called Yates and asked her to return the next morning, January 27, when she testified that he asked her about four main concerns: Why did it matter to the Justice Department if Flynn lied to Vice President Mike Pence? What criminal statutes did Flynn potentially violate? Would taking action against Flynn immediately interfere with the FBI's investigation? Could he see the underlying evidence collected in Flynn's interview? Yates explained that any official publicly repeating the lie that Flynn had not discussed sanctions with Russian ambassador to the US, Sergey Kislyak, was increasing the chance Flynn would be blackmailed. " Every time this lie was repeated and the misrepresentations were getting more and more specific, as they were coming out, every time that happened, it increased the compromise and to state the obvious: You don't want your national security adviser compromised with the Russians," Yates said. Flynn's lawyer, Robert Kelner, declined comment when reached by CNN Monday.2. Trump is increasingly looking alone in his belief that Russia did not interfere to help him in the 2016 election Trump has repeatedly called the investigations of possible coordination between his campaign aides and Russia "fake news" and, last week, said it may have been China that was behind the hacking. That's an assessment that's looking increasingly detached from US intelligence officials." To me, the evidence was overwhelming, and very compelling, that the Russians did this," Clapper testified, when asked about Trump's most recent assertions. Then, prompted by Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy, Clapper said Trump may still be helping the Russians by denying their involvement." You could rationalize that it helps the Russians by obfuscating who was actually responsible," Clapper said.3. Clapper and Yates undercut one of the Trump White House's strongest arguments Throughout the Russia probes, the Trump White House has pointed to testimony earlier this year from Clapper that he had seen no evidence in the January intelligence report of collusion between the President's campaign and Russia. That was before FBI Director James Comey publicly revealed that the FBI was, in fact, investigating that question. Clapper said Comey's March 20 testimony was the first he heard of the FBI investigation. He later said that his original assessment was that there was no evidence he had seen worth including in the intelligence assessment -- but Yates later said that she could not answer the question because she did not want to reveal any classified information. The implication from both officials' testimonies was that there may, indeed, be evidence of collusion -- this after months of the White House arguing that Clapper was clear there is no evidence. 4. The Senate investigations have strong strains of partisanship Monday's hearing with Yates and Clapper was clearly focused on Russia's interference in the 2016 election, but Republican and Democratic senators still used it to land some partisan shots. Republican senators grilled Yates on why she refused to enforce the first executive order that imposed a travel ban issued by Trump. " I don't mean any disrespect: Who appointed you to the Supreme Court?" Sen. John Kennedy, a Louisiana Republican, told Yates in a comment that immediately lit up Twitter. And Texas GOP Sen. Ted Cruz went to town on Yates, arguing that she may have broken the law by refusing to defend the order. She rebutted him by pointing to a later court ruling that supported her argument that she had a greater duty to protect against discrimination and uphold the Constitution. Democrats, meanwhile, pushed hard with lines of attack clearly aimed at damaging Trump himself, not necessarily digging into what happened in the 2016 elections. Connecticut Sen. Richard Blumenthal, one of the Senate's most staunchly liberal members, took Yates on a winding line of questioning that ended with Trump possibly appearing on the witness stand in a hypothetical court trial against Flynn. At the end of the hypothetical exercise, Blumenthal pressed Yates if that was even remotely possible. Yates responded: " Potentially." The Senate Russia investigators may have maintained the air of being the adults in Congress investigating Russia's interference. But the Senate Judiciary Committee has proved over the last two hearings (including last week's with Comey) that partisanship is still a powerful force in its own inquiry. 5. The media matters Yates was fired by Trump one day after it came out that she had refused to defend his travel ban and four days after she first alerted Mc Gahn about Flynn. Meanwhile, it took 18 days for the White House to fire Flynn after Yates first told Mc Gahn about his FBI interview. " Without that published report, and without the free press telling us a lot of what went on, Michael Flynn might still be sitting in the White House as national security adviser," said Blumenthal, referring to the original Washington Post report about Flynn's phone calls with Kislyak.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/gKK77--g_dU/index.html
Mitch Mc Connell: the man who may decide health care bill Meet the man who might determine your health care coverage By Ted Barrett, CNN Updated 1503 GMT (2303 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Mitch Mc Connell, who has led Senate Republicans for a decade, may be one of the most disciplined politicians in America. Story highlights Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell's leadership will be necessary to get a health care bill through Congress The Kentucky Republican helped ensure a conservative justice was confirmed to the Supreme Court Washington ( CNN) A few hours after the House finally passed a bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, Mitch Mc Connell walked silently and expressionless from his office to a waiting black SUV outside the Capitol. Only his police detail and an aide were with him as he left the quiet building and drove off. The solitary scene was a sharp contrast from the crowded and boisterous victory rally President Donald Trump threw for relieved House Republicans in the White House Rose Garden after the vote. But it may capture the low-key, no-frills style of Mc Connell, the determined Senate majority leader from Kentucky, that could serve him well as he takes on one of the most important legislative challenges of his career. All eyes now turn to Mc Connell and his fellow Senate Republicans to see if they can accomplish what the House GOP did through fits and starts: Pull together an ideologically diverse conference and secure enough votes to get rid of Obamacare, a promise they've made repeatedly but failed to keep since President Barack Obama's health care law passed in 2010. AMA, AARP, Cancer Society Oppose GOP's Plan AMA, AARP, Cancer Society Oppose GOP's Plan 01:40" The Senate is looking forward to getting it," Trump said after the House vote. " Mitch Mc Connell knows how to do things, and I think we're going to have some really great health care for a long time." Mc Connell, who has led the Senate Republicans for a decade, may be one of the most disciplined politicians in America and therefore uniquely suited for the task. He will need all the self-control and detachment he can muster to steer the complex health bill through the competing demands -- and passions -- of the various factions of his caucus while also writing effective legislation that could set the nation's health policy for a generation. Read More Mc Connell's reputation is that of the ultimate Washington insider, a talented legislative tactician who utilizes the dense Senate rules to achieve his goals. Those skills will be on display as he works to maximize what can pass using the Senate's complicated budget reconciliation process, which will allow Republicans to pass a repeal without any Democratic votes. Kasich: GOP health plan 'woefully inadequate' Kasich: GOP health plan 'woefully inadequate' 03:57 His working knowledge of the specialized ways of Washington, gained through 30 years in the Senate, make him someone who Trump, the outsider, needs to lean on to get the Obamacare repeal and other legislation passed. To date, despite GOP control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, Republicans have yet to score any major legislative accomplishments. That adds pressure on Mc Connell to get health care across the finish line. That process will begin in about two weeks after the Congressional Budget Office delivers its official score of the House bill, an estimate of what it will cost taxpayers and how many people will gain or lose health insurance because of it. The CBO said the original House measure in March could mean 24 million fewer people are insured by 2026 than under Obamacare. Senate votes to trigger nuclear option Senate votes to trigger nuclear option 00:56 After that, Mc Connell will square off against Democrats in a critical behind-the-scenes debate -- known in colorful Senate parlance as a " Byrd Bath" -- to determine which parts of the House bill meet the Senate's strict reconciliation rules and can stay in the bill and which parts must be cast aside. It's based largely on whether the provisions are related to taxes and spending and will lower the deficit or if they are unrelated policy matters that aren't allowed in a budget reconciliation bill. The judge is the non-partisan Senate parliamentarian, Elizabeth Mc Donough, who will hear arguments on both sides before deciding. A politician who doesn't seek the limelight Warren cut off during Sessions debate Warren cut off during Sessions debate 01:13 Mc Connell is accustomed to the limelight even if he doesn't seek to bathe in it the way many politicians do. The 75-year-old sixth-term Kentuckian was unflinching in the face of withering criticism from Democrats after he blocked Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama's nominee to the Supreme Court last year and then used the "nuclear option" to make it easier for Trump to put his nominee, Neil Gorsuch, on the court. His defiance and fortitude won him praise and loyalty from most Republicans -- including Trump. Republican senators routinely praise Mc Connell's leadership skills and soft-spoken but direct messaging style. For the most part, he doesn't suffer from the damaging internal backbiting many legislative leaders encounter. Texas GOP Sen. Ted Cruz once called him a "liar" on the Senate floor. But the clash was an aberration and Mc Connell responded coolly, dispatching other senior senators to chastise the younger Cruz. The only time recently that Mc Connell has shown anger in public was during a February debate over the nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions, R- Alabama, to be attorney general, when Mc Connell abruptly interrupted Sen. Elizabeth Warren and accused her of breaking Senate rules that forbid one senator from disparaging another member on the floor, something she denied doing. " She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted," Mc Connell said of Warren. In the end, the late-night dust-up probably bolstered Warren's standing with liberals more than anything else. Annoyance can he heard in Mc Connell's voice occasionally on the floor when he gets into a back-and-forth with Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, D- New York, or Schumer's predecessor Harry Reid of Nevada. But Mc Connell is typically on-message, reading dryly from a well-honed text written by his staff that lays out exactly what he wants to say about a given issue, and not an ounce more or less. And Mc Connell doesn't mind hammering his messages home, often repeating the same lines day after day until they take root in the debate. How Trump won another unlikely victory At news conferences, Mc Connell is unflappable, deflecting reporters who regularly bait him to criticize Trump. Mc Connell will be straightforward when he disagrees with the President -- and has said he should stop tweeting so much -- but Mc Connell has yet to make a major gaffe as he has juggled countless questions about Trump's unorthodox presidency. While Mc Connell is from the establishment wing of the party, he got behind Trump once the businessman won the nomination and never wavered the way House Speaker Paul Ryan did. While the two men are not close friends, they have a respectful working relationship. They meet in person or speak on the phone regularly. Trump called Mc Connell after the House vote Thursday, according to a White House official, to deliver the message that it's now the Senate leader's task to complete the work. Mc Connell is tighter with Vice President Mike Pence, the former House member who attends weekly meetings with Senate Republicans, and who was a critical force in getting the repeal bill through the House. Pence is expected to play a similar role as the Senate considers the bill. Quiet persuasion may be key to success Republicans defend having no women in health care group For all his strengths as a politician, what Mc Connell may need most is the power of quiet persuasion as he works private meetings and phone calls to convince conservatives Republicans like Cruz and Sens. Mike Lee of Utah and Tom Cotton of Arkansas to accept an outcome that more moderate members of the caucus like Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska could vote for too. He might also need the courage to cut loose someone like Collins -- or fellow Kentuckian Sen. Rand Paul, who has blasted the House bill -- if he feels they won't support an emerging deal, something GOP aides say could happen. Mc Connell can afford to lose two members of his caucus and still get 51 votes with a tie-breaking vote from Pence. Mc Connell will lead a 13-member Senate working group on health care that will go behind closed-doors to try to hammer out a compromise over the next several weeks. Tom Price SOTU full interview Tom Price SOTU full interview 10:01 If they reach a deal that can pass the Senate, Mc Connell then must determine whether to go into negotiations with the House to resolve differences between their bills or just send the House the Senate bill and force it to "take-it-or-leave it." Mc Connell's decision would be critical because, while the pressure could be enormous on the House to accept whatever the Senate can pass, it would be a risky gambit in that House Republicans could reject the Senate bill and the whole effort could fail. Issues the Senate must resolve But before that happens there are many difficult issues Mc Connell must help resolve to get a bill through the Senate. What to do about the expansion of Medicaid, which is supported by some GOP senators in swing states that expanded their Medicaid programs under Obamacare but is opposed by some GOP senators in red states that did not expand? What to do about tax credits that make insurance more affordable for lower-income consumers but that are expensive to the treasury? House bill faces challenges in Senate, but GOP already talking What to do about Obamacare regulations that are popular with some senators because they protect consumers but abhorred by others who argue they are mandates from Washington that drive up premiums? The thorny issue of abortion is part of the debate too because the House bill includes language defunding Planned Parenthood. That won't sit well with some moderate Republicans who will want to take out the provision. But keeping it in could be a powerful incentive for conservative Republicans to accept other compromises in the bill they don't like. Each Republican senator has unique policy and political needs related the bill. It will be Mc Connell's job to understand and respect each situation and design a final bill that is carefully tailored to those imperatives and, in the end, is the least bad for most of them. He then must persuade the others, especially those not thrilled with the final agreement, to support it anyway. Democrats warn to watch out for politics Democrats warn privately that Mc Connell might put the political interests of his 52-member conference -- especially those up for re-election in 2018 -- ahead of the repeal-and-replace effort. They think Mc Connell would be happier to remain in the majority in two years and still have Obamacare in place than to than to get rid of law but be in the minority. Democrats, don't get too giddy about 2018 If over the next few weeks, Mc Connell can use his skills to quietly and deftly thread the needle between his party's policy and political interests, he might be able to have both. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/pj1z72PGPPA/index.html
Unusually public debate over Paris nears conclusion Unusually public debate over Paris climate accord nears conclusion, officials say By Kevin Liptak, CNN White House Producer Updated 0421 GMT (1221 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. What happens if U. S. pulls out of Paris climate accord? What happens if U. S. pulls out of Paris climate accord? 03:08 Story highlights Trump aides have aired deep differences over the climate agreement Tuesday's planned strategy session was postponed Washington ( CNN) Internal debates within the Trump administration are not uncommon. But an ongoing argument over the fate of the 2015 Paris climate accord has spilled into unusually public view as top advisers to the President near a decision on withdrawing from the landmark pact. In a string of heated West Wing gatherings, aides have aired deep differences over the climate agreement, which President Barack Obama's administration brokered and which every nation except Syria and Nicaragua has signed onto. A sticky legal hang-up has frustrated those advisers who advocate remaining in the pact. Internal WH debate on Paris climate accord caught up in legal issues Instead of keeping their advice to President Donald Trump closely held, the President's advisers have openly discussed their views of the agreement on television and at events. Meetings to discuss the plan between aides are announced publicly as a final decision approaches. The openness appears to be by design, as Trump and his team tout an openness to different viewpoints and a degree of ideological flexibility. A decision about whether to withdraw from the agreement could come as soon as this week, according to two people familiar with the talks. For many top members of the administration, the debate over whether to stay in Paris or withdraw has moved beyond simple climate science or diplomatic calculus and into a larger dispute over how the Trump administration plans to position itself at the global negotiating table moving forward. Trump has resolved to announce his intentions by this month's Group of 7 meeting in Sicily, meaning a decision to withdraw could isolate him at his first gathering of world leaders. Read More" To some people, Paris is more than just an environmental deal," a person familiar with the talks said as the debate roiled. Rightly or not, the debate has also been regarded as a proxy battle between rival factions within the West Wing, who are split between a nationalist worldview and a more globalist outlook. The actual dividing lines are blurrier, according to half a dozen people familiar with the discussions, and have shifted as aides get a clearer picture about what, precisely, withdrawing from the landmark climate pact would mean for the United States. Thousands march to protest Trump policy Thousands march to protest Trump policy 01:36 Promise to 'cancel' Trump, himself, who promised as a candidate to "cancel" the Paris agreement, has said he still wants out, according to administration officials. His chief strategist, Steve Bannon, has pressed Trump to uphold his campaign promises to withdraw from the plan and thereby signal a commitment to American energy producers, including coal miners. But those views have been tempered by Trump's daughter, Ivanka, who has insisted aides provide her father with the full picture of what a withdrawal could mean for US, according to the people familiar with the talks. Ivanka Trump plans to meet separately with Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, who has said publicly over the last month that the US should pull out of the deal. In arguing against a full withdrawal, the first daughter, who serves as a White House adviser, is joined by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who has warned of diminished US diplomatic standing as a result of pulling out of Paris; Energy Secretary Rick Perry, who advised the US "renegotiate" its commitments; and major US fossil fuel firms, who say the deal provides an effective framework for addressing climate change. Ivanka Trump has said she'll focus partially on climate change in her White House role, and helped set up a meeting during the transition period between her father and former Vice President Al Gore, an outspoken climate activist. She has not, however, spelled out any administration initiatives for combating climate change. And a withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement could dampen any hopes that Trump's daughter would provide a moderating voice on environmental issues inside the West Wing. Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, meanwhile, has adopted a more neutral stance, facilitating a policy and legal discussion without advocating for any particular outcome. A person familiar with Kushner's thinking said the top adviser was initially surprised at the complexity of the legal language contained within the Paris accord, and has pressed the administration's legal minds for a better explanation of the agreement's various clauses." He wants to understand what the basic facts of the agreement are," said one person close to the talks. Paris climate deal negotiator on potential U. S. exit Paris climate deal negotiator on potential U. S. exit 04:29 Legal hang-ups According to those close to the discussions, the look into the legalities of the deal has led to widespread agreement among different agencies that remaining in the accord, while failing to reach the carbon reduction targets set by the Obama administration, would open the administration to legal challenges by climate activists. The legal analysis centers on a single phrase in the Paris deal: a clause declaring a signatory "may at any time adjust its existing nationally determined contribution with a view to enhancing its level of ambition." Lawyers from the White House, State Department and Justice Department have all agreed that language doesn't allow countries to adjust their carbon reduction commitments downward -- a move that would be required if the Trump administration hoped to remain in the deal while still removing the Obama-era environmental regulations that Trump has vowed to scrap. The Obama administration pledged in 2015 to reduce US carbon output by 26-28% by 2025, but the lynchpin of achieving that goal -- closing coal-fired power plants -- is under review by the Trump administration and is expected to be scaled back if not eliminated outright. Administration lawyers have warned that such a downward adjustment in carbon reduction could lead to lawsuits, putting another White House policy in the hands of the courts amid ongoing legal challenges to Trump's proposed visa ban and his vow to strip "sanctuary cities" of federal funding. However, people who drafted the Paris agreement during the Obama administration insist the language wasn't meant to require only upward shifts in carbon reduction targets. Instead, they say flexibility was the intent, and warn against a withdrawal from the accord. Even reducing the US carbon reduction targets would be preferable to withdrawing altogether, said Todd Stern, the lead US negotiator on the Paris agreement during the Obama administration." I think that would be very unfortunate, it would be a bad signal, it would be a bad example to others, but it's a lot better than pulling out of the agreement altogether," he said. " I don't condone that at all, but between the two, it's absolutely better to stay in the agreement." CNN's Jeff Zeleny and Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/L0I5rPbWVfU/index.html
Trump to unveil list of conservative judges to fill lower federal courts Trump to unveil list of conservative judges to fill lower federal courts By Ariane de Vogue, Jim Acosta and Kevin Liptak, CNN Updated 1309 GMT (2109 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Among the nominees are two who were on the President's campaign short list for the Supreme Court. A White House official said the unveiling is expected later Monday. Washington ( CNN) President Donald Trump is expected to announce 10 nominees to federal courts Monday, an adviser to the President confirmed to CNN. Among the nominees are two who were on the President's campaign short list for the Supreme Court -- Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen, who will be nominated to the 6th Circuit, and Minnesota Supreme Court Justice David Stras, who will be nominated to the 8th Circuit. The official confirms that former Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia law clerk Amy Coney Barrett will be nominated to the 7th Circuit and former Justice David Souter law clerk Kevin Newsom will be nominated to the 11th Circuit. The New York Times first reported the President's plans. A White House official said the unveiling is expected later Monday. Read More The list of nominees is derived partly from the roster of potential Supreme Court picks that Trump unveiled during his campaign for President. That list was widely praised by conservative groups, who hope Trump can help reshape the federal judiciary through his federal judge nominations. Because Democrats removed the filibuster for lower-court nominees in 2013, Trump's picks are expected to be approved relatively easily by the Republican-controlled Congress.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/GHwBYAWSIWI/index.html
Trump campaign removes Muslim ban language from website Trump campaign removes controversial Muslim ban language from website By Dan Merica, CNN Updated 1937 GMT (0337 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump's travel ban faces challenges in court Trump's travel ban faces challenges in court 01:19 Story highlights Trump's campaign website still included language promoting a ban on Muslims from entering the country originally posted in 2015 White House press secretary Sean Spicer was asked about the language Monday; it was removed shortly thereafter Washington ( CNN) A press release touting Donald Trump's controversial plan to ban all Muslim travel into the United States was removed from his campaign website Monday, shortly after White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters that he was unaware that the plan was still online. Trump travel ban challenge in appeals court Monday Then-candidate Trump issued a statement calling for the "total and complete shutdown" of Muslims entering the United States until the government could "figure out what is going on," in response to a deadly mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, by ISIS sympathizers in December 2015. Trump later read the plan at a Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, rally before his supporters. " We have no choice. We have no choice," Trump said. " We have no choice." Fiery debate on Trump's travel ban Fiery debate on Trump's travel ban 03:14 Since stepping into office, though, Trump and his top aides have tried to distance themselves from the exact language of the plan, which has been used against the administration's attempt to suspend travel to seven -- then six -- Muslim-majority countries and suspend the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States. Read More US District Court Judge Theodore Chuang said in March, despite the Trump administration's comments about the order not being a Muslim ban, but rather a travel ban, he found "the history of public statements continues to provide a convincing case that the purpose of the second executive order remains the realization of the long-envisioned Muslim ban." The Muslim-ban language remained online until Monday afternoon, when they were scrubbed from the website shortly after Spicer was pressed on why the plan was still on the President's campaign website." You'd have to ask them. I know how we talked about this from the first day of this administration as a travel ban," not a Muslim ban, Spicer said. " You're supposed to make sure that people who are coming here are coming in here with the right motives and reasons, and that we're having a public safety aspect to making sure that we're protecting our people." He added: " We've been very consistent since the first day of this administration on this." An administration spokesperson did not respond to questions about whether anyone from the White House asked that the language come down. A Trump campaign spokesperson did not respond to questions about the website. The 4th US Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral arguments on the travel ban case Monday afternoon shortly after the language was removed. CNN's Laura Jarrett contributed to this report.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/U0A9Q_q9I00/index.html
Trump administration defends travel ban in appeals court Judges appear divided on Trump's travel ban By Laura Jarrett and Saba Hamedy, CNN Updated 0928 GMT (1728 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Trump admin defends travel ban in court Trump admin defends travel ban in court 02:01 Story highlights The 4th Circuit Court of Appeals heard the challenge to a Maryland judge's decision to freeze the revised ban ACLU lawyer: " Sorry isn't enough" Trump admin lawyer: " It's not a Muslim ban" ( CNN) Federal appeals court judges appeared divided Monday after hearing the Trump administration's defense of its travel ban, with one saying President Donald Trump never disavowed his campaign statements on keeping Muslims out of the country and another asking if the ban would still be illegitimate if Trump hadn't won the election." He's never repudiated what he said about the Muslim ban," Judge Robert B. King said, underscoring a key rationale for a Maryland federal district court's halt to the ban: That it is intended, as evidenced by Trump's campaign statements, to target Muslims and is therefore discriminatory. But Judge Paul V. Niemeyer questioned the plaintiffs' attorney about his motive for opposing the ban." If some other candidate had won the election and issued this order, I gather you would have no problem with that," said Niemeyer, who was appointed by former President George H. W. Bush. The nearly two-hour hearing before the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals came about two months after a federal judge in Maryland imposed a nationwide halt to the core portion of the President's revised executive order that sought to bar foreign nationals from six majority- Muslim countries from entering the US for 90 days. District Court Judge Theodore Chuang concluded, largely drawing on Trump's past statements, that the travel ban likely violates the Constitution by disfavoring Muslims, and the the Justice Department appealed that decision in March. Read More Jeffrey Wall, the acting solicitor general, argued Monday that Trump's statements about Muslims prior to taking office should not be considered evidence of discrimination. Wall emphasized that the revised travel ban was written after the President listened to judges' concerns that the original executive order discriminated against Muslims."( Trump) made it clear he was not talking about Muslims all over the world, that's why it's not a Muslim ban," Wall told judges. But Omar Jadwat, a senior attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants' Rights Project, argued the ban does not serve a valid national security purpose." There's a logical problem with the order," Jadwat said, noting the countries selected by Trump are "not the list of countries you come up" with when outlining those that pose the biggest threats to the United States. He called the ban "completely unprecedented," saying it has caused "extraordinary injury" to the plaintiffs, whose families cannot visit them in the United States. Hawaii judge extends order blocking travel ban Hawaii judge extends order blocking travel ban 02:19 The judges used the first half hour of the hearing to question Wall on how Trump's second order changed from the first, which critics have labeled a clear Muslim ban. King, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton, continued in that vein, pointing out that, as of Monday, the " District Court here found the [ban] is on his campaign website." The controversial plan was removed from Trump's campaign website Monday, shortly after White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters that he was unaware that the plan was still online. The plan has been used against the administration's attempt to suspend travel to seven -- then six -- Muslim-majority countries and halt the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States. Chuang, the district court judge, said in March that despite the Trump administration's assertion that the order was a travel ban, not a Muslim ban, "the history of public statements continues to provide a convincing case that the purpose of the second executive order remains the realization of the long-envisioned Muslim ban." On Monday, Wall emphasized that the President made his campaign vow to ban Muslims "before he took the oath."" It is an archived press statement from 16 months ago," Wall said when asked. " We took an oath and formed a government." The judges also asked Wall if the administration has been able to review the vetting procedures since Trump issued the first travel ban in late January." What we have been doing since January 27 is just litigating this order," Wall replied. Jadwat, meanwhile, struggled to answer the judges' questions about what exactly he claimed is wrong with the text of the travel ban. The judges also asked the ACLU attorney whether his organization would challenge the same travel ban order if someone besides Trump signed it." What if [ Trump] said he was sorry every day for a year?" Judge Dennis Shedd asked." Sorry is not enough," Jadwat said. Following the hearing, the ACLU held a press conference outside the courthouse featuring a handful of speakers who oppose the ban." The Muslim and refugee ban is a clear example of politics of hate and xenophobia," said Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law Center. " This is part of a larger agenda that this administration has against people of color, Muslims, trans community and many others." Normally, such an appeal of a district court's decision would be heard by a randomly assigned panel of three judges, and the losing party may ask for it to be reheard by the full court. Yet in this case, the judges on the 4th Circuit decided it should be heard by the full court -- otherwise known as "en banc" -- in the first instance. Ten of the 15 active judges on the court are either Clinton or Obama appointees. A source familiar with the case told CNN that Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III -- a Reagan appointee and one of the most highly respected judges on the court -- recused himself from the case because Wall is his son-in-law as well as his former law clerk. Judge Allyson Duncan, who was appointed by former President George W. Bush, also stepped aside. That means 10 of the 13 judges who heard Monday's case were appointed by Democrats. What's at stake? This is not the Trump administration's first legal showdown over the President's travel ban. The original executive order was swiftly blocked nationwide by a federal judge in Seattle, the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals refused to reinstate it, and then the administration spent over a month rewriting it, exempting several categories of foreign travelers and taking care to make no express mention of religion -- all in the hopes of avoiding legal scrutiny for a second time around. Yet statements from Trump and his advisers, especially when combined with his continued inclusion of a 90-day ban on foreign nationals from six Muslim-majority countries in the revised executive order, have proved -- at least for now -- insurmountable in court. Steve Bannon's White House whiteboard revealed The suit in front of the 4th Circuit on Monday was brought by several refugee rights organizations, along with individual plaintiffs who claim the executive order, if allowed to go into effect, would separate them from loved ones abroad. They also claim that the "anti- Muslim animus" underlying the second executive order is readily apparent from the litany of public statements Trump made before and after the presidential campaign. Trump's words come back to haunt in court Chuang disagreed with the administration's argument that Trump's campaign statements shouldn't count in lawsuits, noting that Trump's campaign website still contained a statement on "preventing Muslim immigration" at the time. Chuang went on to explain that the consideration of such evidence by a federal court is a matter of "common sense," as such "explicit statements of a religious purpose are 'readily discoverable facts' that allow the court to identify the purpose of this government action without resort to 'judicial psychoanalysis.'"" Simply because a decisionmaker made the statements during a campaign does not wipe them from the 'reasonable memory' of a 'reasonable observer,'" Chuang added. As a result, the crux of the issue on appeal is likely whether the 4th Circuit agrees it is permissible to look outside of the four corners of the executive order to examine its purpose." We believe that it makes little sense as a matter of law and logic to ignore the President's own statements telling the country what the purpose of this (executive order) is," explained Lee Gelernt, one of the plaintiffs' attorneys and deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights Project, in an interview with CNN. " This is not a situation where we have to psychoanalyze the President. The President has made clear why he's doing this." The Justice Department declined to comment beyond the legal briefs in the pending case. If the Trump administration wins in the 4th Circuit, will the ban immediately go back into effect? Short answer: no. A second federal judge in Hawaii, US District Court Judge Derrick Watson, issued a nationwide ruling that halted the 90-day travel ban on the same grounds as Chuang, finding it likely violates the Establishment Clause of the Constitution by disfavoring Muslims. Yet Watson's decision was slightly broader in scope and paused Trump's 120-day ban on refugee admissions as well. So if the Justice Department prevails in the 4th Circuit, the case will then go back to the district court judge for further litigation and the key portions of the revised executive order will stay on hold as long as Watson's nationwide decision remains in effect. The Trump administration's challenge to Watson's ruling will be heard by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in Seattle next Monday. CNN's Ariane de Vogue contributed to this story.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/hg2IZW1R5jc/index.html
Donald Trump is turning liberals into conspiracy theorists Donald Trump is turning liberals into conspiracy theorists By Chris Cillizza, CNN Editor-at-large Updated 1647 GMT (0047 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. ( CNN) Much has been written about how President Trump's election has had a profound impact on the Republican party. What's drawn less attention -- but deserves more! -- is how Trump is affecting Democrats. Sure, we've seen coverage of how Trump's election has emboldened the liberal left whose call for confrontation at all times has become the rallying cry of the party. ( This New Yorker profile of Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer describes the rapid evolution from compromise to confrontation well.) What's drawn less attention is how Trump's presidency has convinced liberals that every bad thing whispered about any Republican is, by default, true. Consider that in the last week alone, liberal outrage has been sparked on (at least) four occasions by alleged incidents that simply aren't accurate.1. There was no health care vote beer celebration As the House was voting on the American Health Care Act, Vice News's Alexandra Jaffe spotted cases of beer being brought into the Capitol. She tweeted about it: Read More Cases upon cases of beer just rolled into the Capitol on a cart covered in a sheet. Spotted Bud Light peeking out from the sheet— Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) May 4, 2017 That tweet became the basis of an outrage campaign among liberals. This headline, from Mic, is indicative of the early coverage: " Republicans celebrated taking away Americans' health insurance with cases of beer." ( Mic has since changed the headline to: " Reports of beer delivery to GOP health care celebration called into question.") Less than a half hour later, Jaffe tweeted again, noting that the beer wasn't, in fact, for a celebration party for House Republicans. ( She had never implied it was.) Here are the beers. Asked if they were going to a GOP conference meeting & he said "no, different meeting," no further details Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) May 4, 2017 Didn't matter! By then, the idea of Republicans cracking beers while voting to take away health care from millions of people was already surging across the Internet. ( Look at how many retweets Jaffe's original tweet received versus how many the second tweet got.)2. Rape and sexual assault would not be pre-existing conditionsSpicer pressed on pre-existing conditions Spicer pressed on pre-existing conditions 02:00 Immediately following the passage of the AHCA last Thursday, a talking point emerged: If this bill became a law, being raped or sexually assaulted would qualify as pre-existing conditions and, therefore, would make it much harder for the victim to get health insurance. Not so, according to Washington Post Fact- Checker Michelle Ye Hee Lee, who gave the claim " Four Pinocchios" -- meaning it was "totally false." Wrote Lee: " The notion that AHCA classifies rape or sexual assault as a preexisting condition, or that survivors would be denied coverage, is false...this claim relies on so many factors — including unknown decisions by a handful of states and insurance companies — that this talking point becomes almost meaningless."3. The FCC is not really targeting Stephen Colbert Partisan politics, late night TV in Trump era Partisan politics, late night TV in Trump era 10:05 The Federal Communications Commission announced that it was investigating complaints following late-night talk show host Stephen Colbert's controversial comments about President Trump and Russian president Vladimir Putin. Liberals cried foul, insisting that the Trump administration was trying to stifle criticism -- an abrogation of the 1st amendment. More like standard operating procedure, according to CNN media reporter Frank Palliotta. As an FCC spokesman told him: " We review all consumer complaints as a matter of standard practice and rely on the law to determine whether action is warranted. The fact that a complaint is reviewed doesn't speak one way or another as to whether it has any merit."4. The chief usher was not fired over a disagreement with the Trumps Watch CNN's video report on the first female White House usher leaving Watch CNN's video report on the first female White House usher leaving 01:02 The firing of White House chief usher Angella Reid, the first woman to hold that job, was seized on as the latest piece of evidence that Trump and his administration was nothing more than an old boys club -- openly hostile to women and minorities. Turns out, according to Axios reporting, that Reid got along well with the President and First Lady but was far less popular with the staff of the White House she oversaw. " When her departure was announced to the residence staff yesterday morning, workers burst into applause," Axios reported. In each of these four instances -- and all of these have been in the last week! -- liberals, fueled by Twitter outrage, jumped to conclusions that portrayed Trump and other Republicans in the poorest possible light. And, on each occasion, the fuller story either totally or mostly rebutted the version of the story the left had seized on. Trump's presidency presents Democrats with lots and lots of legitimate issues on which to push back -- from the travel ban to the ongoing questions about Trump officials' ties to Russia to the president's refusal to release his tax returns. By embracing every single tweet or whisper as yet another piece of full-proof evidence of just how terrible Republicans are, Democrats run the risk of appearing like the boy who cried wolf to the public -- and in the process taking some steam out of the very legitimate questions they are asking about the Trump administration.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/Ttq91Cjlw98/index.html
In angry letter, Page discloses 'brief interactions' with Russian official In angry letter, Page discloses 'brief interactions' with Russian official By Manu Raju, CNN Senior Congressional Reporter Updated 2328 GMT (0728 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Carter Page slams Senate intel panel Carter Page slams Senate intel panel 01:55 Story highlights Page pointedly declined to provide details of more meetings with Russians The former Trump campaign adviser attacked the Senate intelligence committee's "bitter" investigation Washington ( CNN) Former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page told Senate investigators that he had "brief interactions" several years ago with a Russian official he said was a "junior attaché," even though US officials had suspected the official of spying on behalf of the Kremlin. Page pointedly declined to provide details of more meetings with Russians, saying doing so would result in "hundreds of hours" of work and that the Obama administration already had records of his Russian contacts because of its surveillance of his activities. In an angry nine-page letter, Page attacked the Senate intelligence committee's "bitter" investigation, suggesting it was a "show trial" into potential collusion between associates of President Donald Trump and Russians during the elections. Page said the committee's request for detailed information about his recent contacts with Russians is "preposterous" and "illogical," and is " based on "lies from corrupt politicians." But he does acknowledge meeting in 2013 with Victor Podobnyy, whom he called a "junior attaché" to Russia at the United Nations, even though US officials believe he is a spy. He said he only had "brief interactions" with Podobnyy and did not expand on what they discussed. Hill investigations on Russia run into hurdles But Page acknowledged in 2013 he met with federal agents about his discussions with Podobnyy, saying he brought up some of his research with the federal investigators that he said prompted retaliation from the government. His identity, he said, was "unlawfully" unmasked by federal authorities. Read More" Without question, the harsh retribution subsequently taken against me marks a direct retaliation against my dissenting position," Page said. Page's letter came hours before former acting Attorney General Sally Yates delivered long-awaited testimony before a Senate subcommittee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. Page: I'm a victim of civil rights violations Page: I'm a victim of civil rights violations 01:24 The encounters were previously disclosed earlier this year when it was revealed Page was the unnamed person in court filings related to a 2015 case. While the government has never revealed his identity, Page has acknowledged to CNN that he is the individual the documents refer to as a target of recruitment by three Russian intelligence agents, news first reported by Buzz Feed on April 3. The FBI has never accused Page of having been successfully turned as a spy. He has repeatedly denied any allegations of wrongdoing and said he wasn't aware he had been approached by Russian spies. The FBI did, however, obtain a warrant to monitor Page last summer on suspicions he knowingly engaged in clandestine intelligence activities on behalf of Moscow, The Washington Post reported. Page called the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant "unjustified" in a statement to CNN. Page, who also claims the committee has not been responding to his repeated messages, said the Obama administration should already know about his contacts because of the surveillance conducted on him following his meeting with Podobnyy. In response to the committee's questions, Page claims he had no financial or real estate holdings related to Russia from 2015-2016, other than selling off shares of Gazprom, a large Russian energy company, that he said resulted in a net loss of more than $5,000. The leaders of the panel, Republican Sen. Richard Burr and Democratic Sen. Mark Warner, are unlikely to be satisfied with Page's response. After Carter refused to detail his meetings in a letter last week, the two men suggested that they may issue subpoenas for the records. Carter Page rebukes Senate Russia investigators in letter" Should Mr. Page choose not to provide the material requested ... the Committee will consider its next steps at that time," the two men said in a joint statement Friday. On Monday night, Burr told CNN that Page could be hit with subpoenas, warning that the investigation is not "100 percent voluntary." And he said that the panel planned to interview Yates as well." The committee will wait to hear from him at the end of the day -- and anybody else that got letters," Burr said. " Our investigation can't be 100% voluntary the entire time for us to get the answers." But Page so far seems unfazed, saying the committee should move beyond "gangster tactics" and "restore its dignity" by conducting a proper inquiry.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/najRAYB1wsk/
The Kushner family hopes to lure investments from wealthy business owners in China with the promise of American visas. Nicole Kushner Meyer, the sister of White House adviser and President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, spoke at an event in Beijing on Saturday. She was marketing a Kushner-owned property in New Jersey -- invest in the development and get into the United States on a so-called EB-5 visa. The EB-5 visa allows immigrants a path to a green card if they invest more than $500,000 in a project that creates jobs in the United States. An ad for the event, held at a Ritz- Carlton hotel, said " Invest $500,000 and immigrate to the United States." The EB-5 visa has been used by the Trump and Kushner family businesses. Foreigners, particularly wealthy Chinese nationals, have used the EB-5 program as a ticket into the states. And that promise has helped attract foreign investments for U. S. real estate projects. President Trump has taken an anti-immigration stance and vowed to severely tighten the use of work visas. The EB-5 program has come under fire by members of Congress on both sides of the aisle. On Saturday, potential investors in the Kushner project were told they should act quickly because possible policy changes to the EB-5 program might raise the required minimum investment. Nicole Kushner Meyer also told the crowd how her grandfather immigrated to the United States and built a business from the ground up. And she mentioned Jared's new position in the White House. Though she did not reference President Trump by name, his photo appeared on a slide that listed the "key decision makers" on the EB-5 program. " In 2008, my brother Jared Kushner joined the family company as CEO, and recently moved to Washington to join the administration," she said. Jared Kushner serves as an influential senior adviser to the president. Trump has at various times said he would lead or play a key role in many policy areas from foreign affairs to business innovation. The event was meant to draw investors for 1 Journal Square, a $976.4 million residential and commercial project underway in New Jersey. The company says about 15% of it will be funded through the EB-5 program. His attorney, Blake Roberts, said Kushner is not involved in the operation of Kushner Companies and divested his interests in the Journal Square project by selling them to a family trust that he, his wife and his children are not beneficiaries of, which was suggested by the Office of Government Ethics. " As previously stated, he will recuse from particular matters concerning the EB-5 visa program," Roberts said in a statement. The Beijing event, which was organized by Chinese immigration agency Qiaowai, was open to the public. Reporters from the Washington Post and the New York Times attended but said they were later asked to leave. Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S& P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/n2SteLuqcaE/index.html
Tiffany Trump is heading to Georgetown Law By Betsy Klein and Noah Gray, CNN Updated 1550 GMT (2350 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Tiffany Trump walks through the lobby of Trump Tower on January 19, 2017 in New York City. Story highlights Tiffany Trump is going to Georgetown Law She is the President's youngest daughter Washington ( CNN) Tiffany Trump, President Donald Trump's youngest daughter, has been accepted to Georgetown Law's class of 2020, a representative for the Trump family confirmed to CNN. The first daughter, a recent graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, will attend classes beginning in the fall. Georgetown's law program is one of the top in the country, ranked 15th among law schools, according to US News and World Report's annual rankings. A spokesperson for Georgetown Law declined comment, and several of her fellow incoming students contacted by CNN were not aware of their new classmate. Orientation begins Monday, August 21, with classes beginning the following week, according to the school's academic calendar. The Daily Mail first reported Trump's law school plans. Trump, 23, has kept a relatively low profile since her father assumed office. She joined her father, stepmother, and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Friday at the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea. She traveled to Washington last month for a Wounded Warriors event at the White House, and she was on hand for the Easter Egg Roll. It was an honor attending the 75th Anniversary of Battle of the Coral Sea with my family and Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Mrs. Turnbull ✨ A post shared by Tiffany Ariana Trump (@tiffanytrump) on May 5, 2017 at 1:57pm PDT Read More She was spotted at a New York City bowling birthday party with first lady Melania Trump for brother Barron's 11th birthday. She also traveled to Belize in early March with boyfriend Ross Mechanic. A little different than my normal concrete jungle 🌴🗽 A post shared by Tiffany Ariana Trump (@tiffanytrump) on Mar 13, 2017 at 8:19pm PDT The only child of Trump and Marla Maples, Tiffany was primarily raised by her mother in Calabasas, California. " We were always together," she told People Magazine in an April 2016 interview with Maples. " She gave me the chance to have a normal childhood." The Georgetown choice will give Trump a chance to be closer to her father and sister Ivanka Trump for the first time since she was a child. She moved to New York after her graduation, just months before the election. " My daughter is back here wanting to get to know her dad and spend more time with him," Maples told The Daily Beast at the time. " And I have to really respect that, and I do respect that in every way." She campaigned for her father over the summer and fall, speaking on his behalf at the Republican National Convention in July, calling him a "natural-born encourager." " I always look forward to introducing him to my friends, especially the ones with preconceived notions, because they meet a man with natural charm and no facade. In person, my father is so friendly, so considerate, so funny, and so real. My friends walk away with a glimpse of all that he is and all that he means to me -- of the strong, protective, kind, endearing man I am so proud to call my father," she said in Cleveland. The President's youngest daughter will soon join the ranks of other Georgetown Law alumni, including former Trump campaign chief strategist Paul Manafort, Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, former RNC chairman Michael Steele, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, and NBC anchors Savannah Guthrie and Greta Van Susteren. 
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/1rEWK6jyZsc/index.html
Dems hope Rob Quist will win over Montana's red voters Democrats hope crooning Quist will win over Montana's red voters By Kyung Lah and Sara Weisfeldt, CNN Updated 0126 GMT (0926 HKT) May 9, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Cowboy battles businessman for House seat Cowboy battles businessman for House seat 02:57 Story highlights Trump won the Big Sky state by more than 20% Democrats haven't managed to snag the state's lone House seat in almost 20 years Kalispell, Montana ( CNN) The acoustic song is folksy and gentle, carrying the sort of ease you'd expect from a quaint Montana event. Singing without a microphone and strumming his guitar is Rob Quist, crooning his campaign theme song: " If you stand with me, I can stand up for you." A woman in the Kalispell, Montana, home, packed with several dozen people to meet Quist at this political meet-and-greet, sways to the tune. This is hardly the sort of pounding political anthem for an insurgent run at Montana's at-large congressional district seat, recently vacated by Ryan Zinke, now interior secretary in the Trump administration. The Big Sky state, where President Donald Trump soared to victory by more than 20%, is solidly Republican red, and Democrats haven't managed to snag the state's lone House seat in almost 20 years. Read More Related: Democrats' chances of flipping GOP House seats in 5 special elections, ranked" And then, the Democrats picked a unique outsider candidate. A home-grown, musical star in Montana who ... kind of came out of nowhere," said Lee Banville, associate professor of journalism at the University of Montana. Banville, who specializes in the intersection of politics and media, says in Quist, 69, Democrats have found a candidate who grew up in the humble town of Cut Bank, Montana, turned himself into a state-wide celebrity with his poetry and banjo and whose name has been well-known to locals for decades. Add in an anti- Trump fervor among the Democratic base after a strong showing in Georgia's 6th Congressional District and $2.5 million in contributions have begun flowing into Quist's campaign. Democrats' chances of flipping GOP House seats in 5 special elections, ranked" There is some momentum on the Quist side," Banville said. Like his campaign song, Quist appears more Montana rancher than Washington lawmaker, and that is where a potential upset brews in a state that re-elected Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock and Sen. Jon Tester, another Democrat. They're both politicians who have found ways to connect with their majority- Republican electorate -- which Quist already authentically resembles. As he has throughout his musical career, Quist dons his cowboy hat, boots and belt buckle at public events. He approaches supporters with quintessential Big Sky ease, hammering his pet policy, public use of waterways and land. Big Sky battle: The singer vs. the millionaire Traveling to campaign events that span the entire state for the at-large congressional race, Quist rides in a small RV, driven by one of his band members." This is about Montana values," said Quist. " We have a lot of common ground and that's where I'm hoping to connect with the people of Montana, where we can put this party ideology aside." As he talks about the commonality of Montana people, Quist also admits for him to win: " It's going to be a challenge." Recent history suggests it may be significantly more of a challenge, simply by looking at the congressmen who have represented Montana. Democrats have lost the last 11 congressional elections, the longest losing streak for Democrats for any statewide office since 1889. But this special election is more unusual than others. Health care is personal for Dem House hopeful Health care is personal for Dem House hopeful 00:38 National Democrats are seeing a revitalized base after Democrat Jon Ossoff nearly scored an outright win in a heavily conservative House district in Georgia last month and a better-than-expected performance in a special House election in Kansas earlier in April. The Quist campaign says it has received $2.5 million in contributions, with an average donation of $32 or less. Those factors hover over Montana, Banville said, as does "a healthy dose of anti- Trump sentiment." Independent voter Jill Weiser, who says she has voted both for both Republicans and Democrats, came to listen to Quist speak, driven by her disgust with the President. " Donald Trump has me so outraged that I feel like I've been slapped in the face," said Weiser. " I'm voting with great vigor rather than a feeling that I'm voting because you're supposed to." Montana GOP candidate on why he's running Montana GOP candidate on why he's running 01:26 On May 25, the date of the special election, Trump may drive a Democratic base to Montana polls, but the GOP believes the President only helps their candidate, Greg Gianforte. Gianforte, a businessman who made millions when he sold his tech company to Oracle, recently welcomed Donald Trump Jr. at his campaign event. " The Trump train is chugging along in Montana," Gianforte said. " I look forward to being a voice for Montana and working with Donald Trump to affect those changes." If Quist is quirky, Gianforte is traditionally a western Republican. He poses at gun shows with supporters and talks about Obamacare being a failure. His stump speech rails on federal government overreach and high taxes. On his own wealth, Gianforte said: " I'm a fan of prosperity. And I think as I talk to Montanans, they want prosperity too." Linda Holden, a longtime GOP voter and musician, said she's known Quist for many years, but she's known his music for decades. " I think he's very personable and he's a very good entertainer," Holden said. " I'm going to vote for Greg." Gianforte says he feels "encouraged" about a victory on May 25, but he won't go so far as to say confident. Instead, he repeated a canned line about his opponent several times in an interview with CNN: " He's Nancy Pelosi in a cowboy hat." House candidates in Montana shoot guns in new ads The mud has also been flying in a series of campaign ads running on television. GOP-funded ads claim Quist wants a national gun registry, something Quist denies. Quist said he would like to limit fully automatic rifles but strongly supports the 2nd Amendment, rolling out his own ad showing him shooting the negative GOP ad with his family's rifle. The Washington Free Beacon posted a report that Quist performed at a nudist colony. Quist confirmed to CNN that he did -- but that he performed completely clothed. Quist added that he performs for a wide variety of groups, including Republican events. Banville said he believes that the mudslinging suggests state Republicans are worried about Quist's momentum, understanding that to win statewide in Montana, being " Montanan" can be more important than party affiliation. And then there's the question of Montanan likability, the unknown and powerful variable in the Big Sky state. " Montanans are much more likely to want to hang out and vote for the guy with the banjo than the guy who made millions of dollars in software," Banville said.
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/G4id8wMBMhU/index.html
GOP congressman: Republicans were 'irresponsible' to celebrate AHCA passage at White House GOP congressman: Republicans were 'irresponsible' to celebrate AHCA passage at White House By Chris Massie, CNN Updated 2134 GMT (0534 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Wisconsin Rep. Mike Gallagher said Monday that his fellow Republicans were "irresponsible" for celebrating the House's passage of the American Health Care Act at the White House. ( CNN) Wisconsin Rep. Mike Gallagher said Monday that his fellow Republicans were "irresponsible" for celebrating the House's passage of the American Health Care Act at the White House. " The Democrats were singing on the House floor, singing on the House floor after the vote," the GOP congressman said on " The Jerry Bader Show," a local Wisconsin radio program. " They were celebrating the vote going forward because they feel like it allowed them to get an electoral advantage and, honestly, the Republicans who went to celebrate at the White House -- I disagree with that approach." He went on to ask, " What are we celebrating? We haven't passed a bill into law. The Senate's gonna re-write this thing. I've never seen the Packers pop the champagne at halftime. I just think that's irresponsible. And so I just would urge both sides to just lay down the traditional kind of political weapons if we can because this is a really complex topic and we need serious people working together to fix it." Gallagher, who voted for the bill, was referring his House colleagues' trip to the White House Rose Garden last week to tout their bill to replace Obamacare and to Democrats singing, " Na na na, hey hey hey, goodbye" to taunt Republicans on the House floor. In the interview, Gallagher also criticized President Donald Trump for saying to Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull that Australia, which has a universal health care system, has "better health care than we do." Read More" Listen, if the President is going back and forth on what direction he wants Congress to go, that does create a problem, quite honestly," he said. " Because our system has evolved in such a way where presidential leadership is often the only thing that is able to resolve very difficult legislative issues. Now, I don't think it should have evolved that way. I think we have ceded far too much authority to the President but that's where we are." He later added of Republican senators, " I think for one, they're taking a look at the House bill and they're seeing where they can fix it and improve and so I'm not sure how much the President's statements are impacting that process. I would be surprised if they're impacting them at all. But it's not helpful to suggest, you know, that we wanna get a single payer system."
http://rss.cnn.com/~r/rss/cnn_allpolitics/~3/5NW7ia-3d-4/index.html
Hill inquiries on Russia run into hurdles Hill investigations on Russia run into hurdles By Manu Raju, Senior Congressional Reporter Updated 1153 GMT (1953 HKT) May 8, 2017 Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Sally Yates to testify on Flynn's Russia ties Sally Yates to testify on Flynn's Russia ties 03:12 Story highlights The Hill inquiries into Russian meddling into the US election are navigating around an FBI probe Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates will testify on the Hill on Monday Investigators say the congressional probes are expected to go far into the future ( CNN) Congressional investigators are running into new challenges with their Russia probes, facing a mountain of records to sift through, uncertainty about the leads they are chasing and partisan disagreement over whether there was any collusion between the Kremlin and Trump advisers. In interviews with CNN, a number of House and Senate lawmakers said that they expect both panels' investigations to drag on well into the fall -- and possibly even into 2018. And there is a high degree of skepticism over whether the two panels would eventually be able to reach any sort of bipartisan agreement on a central question: Did the Russians privately coordinate with Trump officials in an attempt to sway the elections?" Everyone sees things through their partisan lens," one lawmaker said. Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates, along with James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence, will appear before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee Monday to give testimony that could help investigators learn more about Trump associates' alleged ties to Russia, including former national security adviser Michael Flynn. And as FBI Director James Comey also plans a trip to Capitol Hill this week, investigators are struggling to determine whether some Trump campaign advisers, including former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former foreign policy adviser Carter Page, secretly worked with Russians to help sway the elections. The committee has recently sent a range of letters asking for Trump associates to detail their meetings with Russians, including to Page. He declined Friday to provide that information to the panel, citing surveillance that occurred over his communications during the Obama years. Read More RELATED: 10 things we learned from FBI Director James Comey's Senate hearing But the lawmakers also don't know if the meetings Trump associates took with Russians were simply aimed at helping their own companies and bolstering their business connections. It's uncertain whether the investigators will be able to talk to any of the Russians who allegedly met with Trump officials. And the work ahead, they say, is staggering." This is not hyperbole: The amount of documents that we have to go through is as tall as I am," said GOP Sen. James Lankford of Oklahoma, who stands at 5 feet 10 inches. A trip last week to CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, was intended to clarify some key questions lawmakers have -- but it only led to more that investigators are trying to answer as they sift through the data supporting the intelligence community's January report that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered a cyber-campaign to sway the elections to benefit President Donald Trump. Plus, the Hill inquiries are navigating around an FBI probe into possible Trump campaign ties with Russian officials that some key lawmakers believe could take more than a year to complete. Over the weekend, a former US official has confirmed to several news organizations, including CNN, that Trump's transition team warned Flynn about the risks of communicating with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak weeks before the two discussed sanctions over the phone. Flynn later resigned over mischaracterizing that conversation to Trump administration officials. The Senate intelligence committee will get a chance to question Comey next Thursday when he plans to publicly brief the panel. The panel eventually wants to talk to at least 35 witnesses, some of whom likely will also be interviewed by the FBI. But perhaps the biggest challenge: Going through the mounds of documents that the intelligence community has provided them, especially with less than a dozen staff members on the Senate side to help sort through the records. RELATED: Senate Russia investigation to add 2 more staffers after pace criticized Comparing the matter to the Ken Starr probe of Bill Clinton in the 1990s, Lankford said: " That took three years and that's a pretty narrow set of issues. We should be much faster than that, but it's not going to be three months." Democrats who want to move quickly on the investigation acknowledge that the probe could very well slip into 2018, potentially making it even harder to reach consensus in the heat of a midterm election season when control of Congress will be at stake." I would think by the August recess would be very aggressive" to finish the investigation, said Sen. Martin Heinrich of New Mexico, a Democrat who sits on the Senate intelligence panel. Heinrich said the committee could quickly reach consensus on some elements of the inquiry -- including the "active measures" the Russians employed." But on some of the harder questions where it's going to take some time, and every time we find something about that, it adds a new layer of questions, I would be cautious about setting a specific timeline at this point," Heinrich said. House intelligence committee In the House, the inquiry had stalled for weeks amid a partisan dispute over Chairman Devin Nunes' actions and whether he had grown too close to the White House. But after he stepped aside last month amid revelations he was facing a House Ethics Committee inquiry, the new head of the Russia investigation, Texas Republican Rep. Mike Conaway, and the top Democrat on the committee, Adam Schiff of California, have tried to take steps to show the investigation is back on track. Schiff and Conaway have agreed to an initial list of around 30 witnesses to interview, along with a public hearing to take testimony from Yates, who had privately warned that Flynn could have been compromised by the Russians. RELATED - Sources: Former Acting AG Yates to contradict administration about Flynn at hearing" We are currently sending out invitations for witnesses to testify and requests for pertinent documents," Conaway and Schiff said in a joint statement last week. Yet, given the partisan makeup of the panel, the belief among some Democrats that Trump campaign associates may have committed crimes, and Republicans pushing back at the possibility of collusion, several members of the committee don't think that a bipartisan consensus is possible. And that was evident, sources say, at a closed-door briefing with Comey last week, with many of the House intelligence committee questions splitting along partisan lines: Republicans pushing for answers on the leaking of classified information, with Democrats grilling Comey for information on collusion. Examining ties to top Trump aides Moreover, House and Senate investigators are still trying to understand the exact nature of some of the meetings between Russians and Trump campaign officials. And the investigators are reviewing intelligence on the actions of some of the big-name Trump associates, including Page, Manafort, Flynn and Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner, before scheduling interviews with them." Most of it is complicated," said Sen. Angus King, independent of Maine, who sits on the panel. " We are talking about a lot of people." The challenge for members also is easily accessing and reviewing the classified documents, since many are housed at secure facilities, like CIA headquarters in Langley and at the National Security Agency in Ft. Meade, Maryland. That will only add more time to the inquiry." This is different than other inquiries we deal in," said Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, a GOP member of the Senate intelligence committee, citing the logistical issues in accessing the high volume of documents. " I wouldn't put a timeline on it. This is an unprecedented effort." After the Senate intelligence committee returned from Langley last week, Sen. Mark Warner, the vice chairman of the panel, said it would be an "iterative" process, as the full committee was reviewing a batch of new documents from the NSA." But I can also tell you patience has never been my virtue," he said. RELATED - Warner: Flynn incident shows Trump admin's 'reckless' behavior CNN's Tom Lo Bianco, Jim Acosta and Jeff Zeleny contributed to this report. 
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-pol-trump-week-100-days-20170426-story.html
President Donald Trump poses for a portrait in the Oval Office in Washington, Friday, April 21, 2017 Andrew Harnik / Associated Press President Donald Trump poses for a portrait in the Oval Office, President Donald Trump poses for a portrait in the Oval Office, ( Andrew Harnik / Associated Press) Wow. It seems like a lifetime since Donald Trump took office. But we're just approaching his 100th day. With just a few days to go until that milestone, we can only imagine what could happen in such little time. Let’s catch up on week 14: Last weekend The headliner. Trump spoke with record-setting astronaut Peggy Whitson and another crew member on the International Space Station. What you might have missed. A blog post the State Department published in early April came under fire for promoting Trump’s Mar-a- Lago. The agency deleted the post soon after. The headliner. Back to the Flynn saga. Lawmakers are now saying that former national security adviser Michael Flynn didn’t disclose payments he received from business dealings in Turkey and Russia. According to Rep. Elijah Cummings, Russian companies paid Flynn more than $67,000 before the election. All in the family. Ivanka Trump got booed while in Berlin, when she said that her father is an advocate for women’s rights. Sanctuary cities fight back. A federal judge blocked Trump’s order to strip funding from cities who refuse to follow the administration’s immigration policy. The headliner. The White House revealed a dramatic plan to overhaul the tax code. Budget experts are skeptical. National monuments under review. Trump signed an executive order that could lead to the reduction or elimination of some national monuments. Backtracking? Trump told the leaders of Mexico and Canada that he won’t leave the North American Free Trade Agreement — at least for now. What you might have missed. All 100 senators headed to the White House for a briefing on North Korea. The headliner: Congress is trying to avoid a government shutdown. House Republicans introduced a stopgap bill that would keep the government open for another week in order to buy time to pass a $1-trillion-plus spending bill. As a result, they’re pushing the repeal and replacement of Obamacare until next week. Troops killed. Two American troops were killed and a third wounded Wednesday night during a raid in Afghanistan, the Pentagon announced. It’s not over with Flynn. The Pentagon inspector general is investigating whether Flynn violated military rules by accepting foreign payments from Russia and Turkey. What you might have missed. The Senate confirmed Alex Acosta as secretary of Labor, filling the last spot in Trump’s Cabinet. The headliner. Government shutdown averted! Congress passed the stopgap measure (mentioned yesterday) and will get another week to hammer out a deal to keep the government running for the remainder of the fiscal year. Drill, baby, drill. Trump signed an executive order that could open up parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans for new oil and gas drilling. The headliner. Day 100 finally arrives. Trump skipped the White House Correspondents’ Dinner to hold a rally for his supporters in rural Pennsylvania, where he lashed out at immigrants and the media. Meanwhile … thousands of demonstrators around the country held protests over Trump’s rejection of climate change and other environmental concerns. What you might have missed. Trump signed executive orders directing a review of U. S. trade agreements and creating an Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy, according to pool reports.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-rally-20170428-story.html
Trump holds a 100-day rally on friendly turf, snubbing the White House Correspondents' Dinner - LA Times Trump rally Jim Watson / AFP/ Getty Images President Trump addresses a rally in Harrisburg, Pa., marking the 100th day of his presidency. President Trump addresses a rally in Harrisburg, Pa., marking the 100th day of his presidency. ( Jim Watson / AFP/ Getty Images) President Trump on Saturday skipped the White House Correspondents’ Dinner to mark his 100th day in office doing what got him there: taking his populist message directly to an adoring audience, this one in Pennsylvania, the state he credits with delivering his surprise electoral college win in November. Trump revived the racially charged speech that infused his election campaign, lashing out at immigrants and promising to jail or deport anyone who doesn’t belong in the United States. He also promised to restore coal mining jobs, though without detail about how that would happen." We are not going to let other countries take advantage of us anymore. From now on it's going to be America first," Trump said. The rally unfolded like a greatest hits of Trump's most polarizing refrains. He prompted loud cheers for promising to keep radical Islamic terrorism out of the country, deport immigrants in the country illegally and build a wall along the border with Mexico. When Trump hammered the media, people in the crowd turned around to jeer and boo at reporters typing on their laptops in the press area on the arena floor. Among the many signs seen in the crowd were: " Promises made. Promises kept," " Drain the swamp" and " Women for Trump." Young girls could be heard chanting " We want Trump!" The sound system played a rendition of " My Way.” Supporters show their enthusiasm for President Trump on the 100th day of his presidency. Supporters show their enthusiasm for President Trump on the 100th day of his presidency. ( Tracie Van Auken / European Pressphoto Agency) The rally coincided with an event staged by one of Trump’s favorite foils, the White House press corps, which held its annual dinner Saturday night in Washington — one of the first such dinners in more than three decades not attended by the sitting president. Trump’s speech started at the same time as the White House Correspondents’ Dinner, but administration officials said it wasn’t scheduled to take attention away from the event, sometimes called the “nerd prom.”“ I respectfully suggest that it’s not just about the Correspondents’ Dinner; it’s rather an opportunity for him to talk to voters that elected him and what he’s been able to accomplish in the first 100 days,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told reporters Friday. The media were favorite targets of Trump during the campaign, and he went after them Saturday in Pennsylvania, once again accusing them of reporting “fake news” and adding that they deserve “a big, fat, failing grade.” Alluding to the dinner he was skipping in Washington, he predicted the black-tie event would be a “very, very boring” affair." I could not possibly be more thrilled than to be more than 100 miles away from Washington's swamp, spending my evening with all of you and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people, right?" the president said. The rally took place at the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex & Expo Center, 50 miles from where Trump made his 100-day compact with voters in October, and Trump recounted what he touted as major accomplishments in the first 100 days of his presidency. Chief among them: He placed a conservative Justice Neil M. Gorsuch on the Supreme Court, revamped orders to allow immigration agents to deport more people in the country illegally, and initiated a program to roll back regulations on businesses and environmental protection. But more than half of his 30-plus executive orders simply told Cabinet agencies to study a problem and come up with recommendations. Trump hasn't repealed and replaced the Affordable Care Act or torn up the North American Free Trade Agreement or the Iran nuclear deal, as he pledged last year. After talking tough on Chinese trade practices, he has agreed not to name China a currency manipulator as he promised. And his efforts to ban travelers from select Muslim-majority nations have been blocked in court. The White House announcement last week of an ambitious plan to cut taxes was rolled out as a one-page document with bullet points, not as a policy proposal to Congress. Trump, who had no government or military experience before he ran for president, acknowledged this week that running the government is tougher than he expected." This is more work than in my previous life. I thought it would be easier," Trump told Reuters in an interview Thursday. During that interview, he handed out maps showing which parts of the country he carried in November. His advisors say he is still fixated on the daily news cycle and often asks how a decision will play in the media before he chooses a path forward. The 100th day of his presidency on Saturday also triggered protests around the country by tens of thousands of demonstrators who denounced the administration's rejection of scientific claims on climate change and its action on other environmental issues. Participants in the People's Climate March said they objected to Trump's rollback of restrictions on mining, oil drilling and greenhouse gas emissions at coal-fired power plants, among other things. Trump is the first sitting president to skip the White House Correspondents' Dinner since Ronald Reagan, who didn't attend in 1981 because he was recovering from being shot the previous month. At the 2011 dinner, Trump was roasted by then- President Obama after several weeks of the billionaire businessman's appearing on news shows spreading the false conspiracy theory that Obama wasn't born in the United States. People close to Trump, who was in the audience that night, have said his humiliation that night spurred him to seriously consider a White House bid.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-climate-20170428-story.html
Trump stumbled on healthcare and immigration, but he's been 'a wrecking ball' on the environment - LA Times Oil rig California State Lands Commission An oil-drilling rig in the Santa Barbara Channel off Goleta, Calif. An oil-drilling rig in the Santa Barbara Channel off Goleta, Calif. ( California State Lands Commission) In a Trump administration beset by lost opportunities, muddled strategies and frequent missteps in its first 100 days, one area stands out for its disciplined approach and early successes: the multi-front assault on environmental regulations. Unlike the Obamacare repeal debacle or immigration actions now tangled in the federal courts, the administration has managed in a few short months to upend numerous hard-fought environmental protections and climate actions that the fossil fuel industries have been targeting for years. Planned action on climate change has been shelved, national monuments are imperiled, clean air and water rules have been eroded. Doubt has even been cast on the ability of states like California to protect their own robust environmental regulations. The tens of thousands of protesters who converged Saturday on Washington and other cities for the People’s Climate March confronted a policy landscape that perhaps more than any other has been transformed under President Trump. Even as marchers were making their signs and plotting their chants on Friday, Trump was delivering another blow, signing an order that could open the California coast and Arctic to new oil and gas drilling.“ It has been a wrecking ball right out of the gate,” said Rep. Jared Huffman of San Rafael, a top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee. “ We shouldn’t underestimate the amount of damage that has already been done to the environment by an administration that can’t seem to get almost anything else done.” The fast clip at which the administration has eased environmental rules reflects how vulnerable many of the rules are after having been put into place administratively by an Obama White House that could not get consent from a resistant Congress. But it is also a sign of the unprecedented sophistication and political organization of fossil fuel and related industries, which have nurtured for years a network of think tanks and politicians in preparation for this moment. That team of industry-supported activists now dominates the leadership of Trump’s environmental agencies, which have set about killing those rules in the hopes of boosting some U. S. industries. Trump order could open California coast, Arctic to new oil and gas drilling William Yardley and Chris Megerian President Trump on Friday is expected to sign an executive order that could open large parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans to new oil and gas drilling, a prospect that elicited a fierce backlash in California and elsewhere even before details of the order were clear. The move, which... President Trump on Friday is expected to sign an executive order that could open large parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans to new oil and gas drilling, a prospect that elicited a fierce backlash in California and elsewhere even before details of the order were clear. The move, which... ( William Yardley and Chris Megerian) “ We are very heartened by the progress that has been made,” said Myron Ebell, who headed Trump’s transition at the Environmental Protection Agency and has since returned to the Competitive Enterprise Institute, an industry-funded group that takes a lead nationally in denying mainstream climate science. “ I’m not going to take credit, but one might take a look at the work of the transition for the Department of Energy, Department of Interior, and the EPA.” The transition at each of those agencies was run by leaders from think tanks aligned with the donor network guided by fossil fuel tycoons Charles and David Koch. The organizations over the last several years have sent lobbyists and attorneys across the country in a coordinated effort to undermine President Obama’s climate action and fight state efforts to promote clean energy. Among their most prized allies was Scott Pruitt, now the EPA administrator, who during the Obama administration developed extensive legal strategies for attacking federal environmental rules while serving as Oklahoma’s attorney general. Trump’s Energy secretary, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, oversaw a similar effort in his home state. Business groups have praised the administration’s quick work, saying the Obama-era rules were expensive, burdensome and unnecessary.“ A lot of this involves questionable uses of executive authority by the Obama administration that simply had to be put back in the bottle,” said Scott Segal, a lobbyist for big energy firms. But longtime EPA officials have been alarmed by the speed of the changes, with one likening Trump’s team to “trained assassins.” People don’t trust government, they don’t trust scientists, they don’t trust environmentalists in the same way they did 10 or 20 years ago. — Jared Blumenfeld, EPA official under Obama Some of the attacks have been high-profile and attention-grabbing: the dismantling of the Clean Power Plan that promised to put the nation’s dirtiest power plants out of business; the shelving of aggressive fuel mileage standards that California and other states are dead-set on implementing; the move to get rid of national monuments; the hasty approval of contentious, massive oil pipelines. But even on days when the announcements don’t make headlines, the tearing-up of environmental rules marches along. Often the rules involved are obtuse and escape broad public notice, but the impact of stripping them piles up.“ A lot of this is technical and below the radar, and the real harm isn’t readily understood by the American people,” Huffman said. “ When you are dealing with things like methane leakage, it gets real technical fast.” The actions have galvanized the environmental movement, as groups scramble to file lawsuits and donations gush in at a record pace. Environmental activists are defiant. They predict Trump’s efforts will ultimately collapse as they have in other sectors.“ They have shown in this first 100 days where they want to go with respect to unraveling climate action and protections for clean air and water, but how effective and competent they will be at executing that agenda remains to be seen,” said Brian Deese, who advised Obama on climate change. “ In practice, these things are more difficult, more complicated and messier than they appear on Day One of an executive order.” Even Ebell expressed concern about a backlog of appointments at the environmental agencies, which right now he worries don’t have the staff in place to implement the directives Trump has made. But the confrontation with Trump presents tough questions for the environmental movement and its effectiveness in the new political climate. Leaders of environmental groups express confidence that Trump will soon be subjected to the same public backlash that hobbled previous Republican administrations that worked to undermine environmental rules. Others who have long been in the trenches of federal environmental protection are more panicked.“ I am very skeptical that public concern about overreach will be the thing that stops Trump from destroying these institutions,” said Jared Blumenfeld, who headed EPA operations in California, Nevada and Arizona under Obama. “ People don’t trust government, they don’t trust scientists, they don’t trust environmentalists in the same way they did 10 or 20 years ago.… The question is, how is the environmental movement retooling its message to deal with this threat?” Polls show Americans favor action on climate change and strong environmental rules. But they don’t show that the coalition of voters that got Trump elected is at all concerned by his direction on such issues. Less than a third of Republican voters worry that Trump’s executive order dismantling much of the federal effort to confront climate change would harm the environment, according to a recent Morning Consult poll. More than half of the Republicans asked by Gallup in March about their feelings on the future of the environment said they believed it was getting better.“ I’m not sure who the environmental advocates can even go to anymore on the Republican side of the aisle,” said Blumenfeld. “ Protecting the environment is something to me that is inherently bipartisan. Yet no one in the environmental community seems to be able to reach out and stop what is happening.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fg-tillerson-un-northkorea-20170428-story.html
Tillerson calls for stiffer sanctions on North Korea as Pyongyang launches another missile - LA Times Tillerson and Haley Associated Press Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and U. S. Ambassador to the U. N. Nikki Haley listen to speeches April 28 in the Security Council at United Nations headquarters. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and U. S. Ambassador to the U. N. Nikki Haley listen to speeches April 28 in the Security Council at United Nations headquarters. ( Associated Press) Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Friday urged the United Nations Security Council to impose new economic sanctions on North Korea, warning of a “catastrophic” outcome if the world fails to block Pyongyang’s rush to develop a nuclear warhead that it can put atop a long-range missile. In his debut speech at the U. N., Tillerson also urged Security Council members to further isolate Kim Jong Un’s government by suspending or downgrading diplomatic relations with Pyongyang, and threatened to slap penalties on third-party countries that don’t comply with existing sanctions. Hours after Tillerson spoke, North Korea’s military launched a ballistic missile from north of Pyongyang that apparently crashed nearby or in waters just offshore. U. S. Pacific Command spokesman Cmdr. David Benham said in a statement that the missile “did not leave North Korean territory.” The White House said President Trump was briefed on the launch. It’s not known if the missile was meant as a rebuke to the White House, or was just the latest of at least seven short- and mid-range missile tests Pyongyang has conducted this year, several of which have failed. Either way, it served to keep nerves on edge in Washington and other capitals over North Korea’s growing nuclear capabilities, a threat that the White House considers its most immediate international concern.“ Failing to act now on the most pressing security issue in the world may bring catastrophic consequences,” Tillerson told the Security Council. “ Additional patience will only mean acceptance of a nuclear North Korea.” He said the threat of a North Korean nuclear attack on Seoul or Tokyo is real and that it is “likely only a matter of time” before Pyongyang gains the ability to launch a nuclear-armed missile at the U. S. mainland, probably California. Tillerson’s address to foreign ministers from the 14 other nations in the Security Council was part of a White House campaign to ratchet up pressure on Pyongyang before it can conduct its sixth underground nuclear test or test-launch its first intercontinental ballistic missile. He spoke a day after President Trump warned that a “major, major conflict” with North Korea was possible, although he said he was seeking a diplomatic solution." There is a chance that we could end up having a major, major conflict with North Korea. Absolutely," Trump told Reuters in an interview ahead of his 100th day in office on Saturday. “ We'd love to solve things diplomatically but it's very difficult.” The standoff over North Korea’s determined push to expand its nuclear arsenal and to develop more powerful missiles has sparked tensions since the mid-1990s, and previous diplomatic efforts under Presidents Clinton, Bush and Obama all ultimately failed. U. S. arms experts believe Pyongyang is within several years of building a nuclear warhead small enough and robust enough for a missile to carry it across the Pacific, and then survive the intense heat of reentry into the atmosphere. The Pentagon sent an aircraft carrier strike force and a nuclear submarine to northeast Asia in the past week in what U. S. officials described as a show of support for allies South Korea and Japan, as well as a warning to North Korea about going too far. Trump’s national security team also briefed members of Congress, including an unusual briefing in a White House annex for the 100 members of the Senate. Most Pentagon planners say Kim’s military, which has thousands of artillery pieces in range of Seoul, South Korea’s capital, could inflict significant damage on the city of 10 million if hostilities broke out. Korean missiles also can reach Japan. The White House has sought to convince China to do more to rein in North Korea, its neighbor and communist ally, and Trump has repeatedly praised Chinese President Xi Jinping for his cooperation on the issue. After the missile launch, Trump on Friday tweeted: " North Korea disrespected the wishes of China & its highly respected President when it launched, though unsuccessfully, a missile today. Bad!" But Tillerson found little support at the U. N. from China and Russia when he called for new penalties on entities and individuals that support North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs, and for nations to better enforce sanctions already in place, said to be among the most stringent ever used. Tillerson called on nations to sever trade with Pyongyang, to discontinue guest worker programs involving North Koreans, and to ban imports, especially coal. China, which is the outlet for 90% of North Korea’s foreign trade, suspended all coal imports from the country in February. The U. S. “would much prefer countries and people in question own up to their lapses and correct their behavior themselves, but we will not hesitate to sanction third country entities and individuals supporting [ North Korea’s] illegal activities,” Tillerson said. China and Russia are both permanent members of the Security Council and thus could veto additional sanctions. Their diplomats cautioned against Washington’s threat to use military force. China’s foreign minister called for resuming long-stalled negotiations to ease the crisis." It is necessary to put aside the debate over who should take the first step and stop arguing who is right and who is wrong," Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told the Security Council. " Now is the time to seriously consider resuming talks." Tillerson didn’t rule out future talks, but he said North Korea had to “exhibit a good-faith commitment” to abide by existing U. N. resolutions by abandoning its nuclear program, something Kim’s government has sworn it will not do.“ We will not reward their bad behavior with talks,” he said. Tillerson repeated a recent flurry of U. S. warnings that the Trump administration is prepared to use military force, if necessary, to constrain North Korea from developing a nuclear threat.“ All options for responding to future provocation must remain on the table,” Tillerson said. “ Diplomatic and financial levers of power will be backed up by a willingness to counteract North Korean aggression with military action if necessary.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-congress-shutdown-votes-20170428-story.html
Congress approves stopgap spending bill to prevent federal shutdown, but Obamacare repeal stalls - LA Times House Republican leadership news conference Michael Reynolds / EPA Speaker of the House Republican Paul Ryan ( R- Wis.) gestures during a news conference beside House Majority Leader Republican Kevin Mc Carthy. Speaker of the House Republican Paul Ryan ( R- Wis.) gestures during a news conference beside House Majority Leader Republican Kevin Mc Carthy. ( Michael Reynolds / EPA) Congress avoided a government shutdown Friday as President Trump marks his first 100 days in office, but failed to serve up a decisive legislative accomplishment for the White House as Republican leaders shelved another attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. The House approved a temporary spending bill, 382 to 30, providing a weeklong extension of federal funding as negotiators continue to hash out a broader deal to keep government running through the remainder of the fiscal year. The Senate unanimously followed, ahead of Friday’s midnight deadline when funding expires. The final deal is expected to include a boost in military spending, though smaller than what Trump wanted, and other provisions, including continued federal assistance to prop up a pension fund for retired coal miners that both parties support. Talks will continue next week. Trump signs order that could open California coastal waters to new drilling Evan Halper Evan Halper Trump had orchestrated the 100-day spending showdown shortly after he won the election, insisting last year that Congress fund the government only through April 28 so he could put his stamp on federal spending after he took office. However, the president’s demands for funds to build a border wall with Mexico and his threat to withhold some payments for Obamacare fell by the wayside as even Republicans, who have the majority in the House and Senate, panned those initiatives. Democrats also resisted Trump’s spending priorities. Because Republicans have stark divisions within their ranks over spending levels, they must rely on Democrats for passage of most measures to prevent shutdowns. Trump’s push for border wall funding was quickly rejected by Democrats.“ Americans know that $50 billion, if that’s what the wall will cost, is far better spent laying broadband throughout America, rebuilding our roads and bridges, doing things that help Americans,” said Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer ( D- N. Y.) ” Thankfully, for the American people, the president failed.” Democrats also are fighting other so-called policy riders that Republicans want to attach to the spending bill, including those related to abortion access, regulations on financial services professionals and one that would limit oversight of various flavors of electronic cigarettes, aides said. Trump balked at including funds for Puerto Rico, which is seeking federal aid for its struggling Medicaid program, but that money is likely now to be included in the final deal as talks continue. Congressional leaders hope to reach a consensus in the days ahead so they can avoid another standoff next week when the just-passed temporary funding for government operations will again expire on May 5. A late push to salvage the Republican promise of dismantling Obamacare also was delayed when it became clear there still were not enough votes of support from rank-and-file lawmakers, who are concerned their constituents will lose their health insurance. Lawmakers left town for the weekend frustrated after making only halting progress on either issue. Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy said he expects the House to vote “as soon as possible” on the latest version of the Obamacare repeal. A vote last month was shelved amid similar dissent.“ We’re close, but we have some work to do,” said a GOP leadership aide granted anonymity to discuss the ongoing situation. The GOP healthcare bill continues to face stiff headwinds, particularly from centrist Republicans, after leaders embraced an amendment designed to appease the most conservative lawmakers. The provision would allow states to waive many of the regulations Obamacare slapped on insurers, which are some of the most popular parts of the law, including mental health coverage, maternity coverage and a ban on charging higher rates for patients with preexisting conditions. While the changes generated new support from lawmakers in the conservative House Freedom Caucus, they are driving away others in more centrist districts, like Florida Rep. Mario Diaz- Balart, who is now leaning against the bill.“ The proposed changes to this bill would leave too many of my constituents with preexisting conditions paying more for health insurance coverage, and too many of them will even be left without any coverage at all,” said Rep. Ileana Ros- Lehtinen ( R- Fla.), who remains opposed. The White House sent mixed signals. Trump wanted to move on to other issues after the March vote was abandoned, but then he made a push for this latest version. But it did not appear that administration officials were heavily engaged in arm-twisting or cajoling to round up votes this week. There were hardly any visible signs of shuttle diplomacy between the White House and lawmakers on Capitol Hill as leaders struggled to find votes. GOP aides say they ended the week having made a net gain in votes, but still not enough for majority passage amid a wall of opposition from Democrats.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fi-economy-gdp-20170428-story.html
Economic growth stumbles to worst rate in two years, underscoring Trump's challenge Consumer spending grew just 0.3% in the first quarter, down from 3.5% the previous quarter. Consumer spending grew just 0.3% in the first quarter, down from 3.5% the previous quarter. The economy stumbled at the start of 2017, expanding at its slowest pace in two years in a demonstration of the difficulty President Trump will have in boosting growth to a much stronger sustained level. Total economic output, also known as gross domestic product, increased at just a 0.7% annual rate from January through March as consumer spending posted its worst performance in more than seven years, the Commerce Department said Friday in its first of three official estimates. The economy grew at a 2.1% annual rate in the fourth quarter of last year.“ Growth of less than 1% means the wheels are up but the economy's engines cannot gain any altitude,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Mitsubishi UFG Financial Group in New York. “ Trump's economics team needs to step up their game as the economy is starting out the year in a hole,” he said. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the report showed that the economy needed help from tax cuts and regulatory reductions promised by Trump.“ Business and consumer sentiment is strong, but both must be released from the regulatory and tax shackles constraining economic growth,” Ross said. Analysts had forecast a first-quarter slowdown, but the 0.7% growth was below expectations. It was the worst since the first quarter of 2014, when unusually bad weather in much of the country and a West Coast port dispute caused the economy to contract at a 1.2% annual rate. In unveiling a tax overhaul plan this week that would slash business rates, Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin said the administration hoped that it would lead to sustained growth of 3% a year. But economists said an aging U. S. population and unhealed scars from the Great Recession made that a stretch. Friday’s data highlighted the difficulties. Although consumer confidence has improved significantly since Trump’s election in November, that didn’t lead Americans to open their wallets after he took office. Consumer spending grew just 0.3% in the first quarter, down from 3.5% the previous quarter. The slowdown was driven by a steep drop-off in purchases of long-lasting durable goods, such as automobiles, appliances and electronics. After an 11.4% increase in the fourth quarter, those purchases declined 2.5% in the first three months of this year. The last time consumer spending was weaker was the fourth quarter of 2009, just six months after the Great Recession officially ended. Overall growth also took a hit from a decline in spending by federal, state and local governments. And unseasonably warm weather appeared to cause spending on utilities to drop.“ A cold winter can lead to delays in construction activities. A warm one, as was the case this year, can produce lower utility bills,” said Brian Schaitkin, senior economist at the Conference Board.“ Sky-high consumer confidence and rising wages suggest that spending should bounce back quickly during the rest of the year, driving the economy to overall growth of around 2% in 2017, in line with long-term trends,” he said. There were some positive signs in an otherwise downbeat report. Business investment, which has been sluggish the last couple of years, increased sharply. The 9.4% increase was more than 10 times the previous quarter’s number and the best since the fourth quarter of 2013. The change was driven by a ”significant surge” in oil and gas exploration and drilling as oil prices have rebounded, Ross said. . And U. S. exports increased 5.8% in the first quarter, reversing a 4.5% decline the previous quarter.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-pol-essential-politics-20170428-story.html
Tomorrow, Donald Trump plans to mark his 100th day in office with a rally in Pennsylvania, the state that, as much as any, symbolizes his upset victory over Hillary Clinton in last fall’s election. If he stays true to his practice, the president will denounce the media for unfair coverage, complain about Democratic obstructionism and tout his achievements. What he most likely won’t do is review the full list of promises he made at another Pennsylvania rally two weeks before the November election. Good afternoon, I'm David Lauter, Washington bureau chief. Welcome to the Friday edition of our Essential Politics newsletter, in which we look at the events of the week in Washington and elsewhere in national politics and highlight some particularly insightful stories. MANY PROMISES, FEW KEPT In the final weeks of the 2016 campaign, Trump set out his promises with great specificity. The Contract with the American Voter, which he described in his speech at Gettysburg, Pa., on Oct. 26, included more than two dozen specific items, some of which he said he would do on his first day, others within the first 100. Not many of those have happened, and now that he’s hit the 100-day mark, Trump has backed away.“ Somebody put out the concept of a hundred-day plan,” he told the Associated Press in an interview a few days ago. “ But things change,” he added. “ There has to be flexibility.” As a new USC Dornsife/ Los Angeles Times poll shows, many of Trump’s supporters are willing to grant him that flexibility — up to a point. According to the survey, more than 90% of people who voted for Trump in 2016 said they would do so again. Mark Barabak found a lot of that sort of sentiment when he traveled to Pueblo, Colo., a formerly Democratic area that swung to Trump in the last election. Few voters there express regrets, Barabak reported. But the poll also showed that an increasing number of voters, including Trump backers, have started to doubt if he will keep his promises. They have reason to worry. A review by The Times found that of 31 key promises, only four have been fulfilled so far, while five have been abandoned. Many have been stalled or scaled back. Over time, failure to live up to promises can erode support for a president. Whether that happens in Trump’s case won’t be answered in the first 100 days, but will be a central question for the rest of this year. Meanwhile, though Trump can’t point to a lot of policy accomplishments, he has changed the emotional climate of American politics. Opposition to him has pushed the Democrats to the left, as Lisa Mascaro vividly described in a report from Wisconsin. HEALTHCARE BLAME GAME Among the stalled promises is Trump’s pledge to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with something “great.” Trump suffered an embarrassing defeat in March when House GOP leaders had to pull the Obamacare repeal bill from the floor because they lacked the votes to pass it. In the last week, White House officials and lawmakers have worked overtime to try to come up with a new version they could bring back for a vote. This week, they announced they had that new version. A key provision would give states the option of dropping most of the consumer protections included in the Affordable Care Act. As Noam Levey reported, the administration and its allies have kept their talks to a closed circle, not consulting with insurers, medical groups, moderate members of the House or the Senate. The resulting bill — more to the liking of conservatives than the previous version — won support from members of the House Freedom Caucus who opposed the last one. But the shift to the right dismayed many Republican moderates. White House officials spent much of the week pressing House leaders to hold a new vote on healthcare so Trump could claim a win before the 100-day clock ran out. Late Thursday, however, House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy ( R- Bakersfield), who is close to Trump, announced that no vote would be held; Republicans still lack the votes for passage. Many Republicans told reporters that they thought the week’s developments had been mostly for show — not an effort to pass a bill so much as an attempt by the Freedom Caucus to shift the blame away from themselves. While that was going on, the White House indicated on Wednesday that the administration would continue to fund key insurance subsidies under Obamacare, which Trump had threatened to hold hostage. Here’s a primer on those cost-sharing subsidies and why they’re important to the continued functioning of the law. In the first 100 days, healthcare has tested whether Republicans, given unified control of government, could turn their promises into policy. So far, the answer appears to be no. WILL TAX REFORM BE EASIER? Trump appeared to take aides by surprise last week when he said in an interview that he would release a tax plan on Wednesday. The resulting plan was little more than a sketch — a single sheet of paper listing principles with no details, as Noah Bierman and Jim Puzzanghera wrote. How much the plan would reduce government revenue, how people at different income levels would be affected, what the impact might be on the economy — none of that was answered. Indeed, the next day, administration officials could not agree on whether Trump’s plan would end the popular tax deduction for 401(k) retirement accounts. ( It wouldn’t, the White House eventually announced). As Don Lee noted, many of the economic policies embedded in Trump’s tax plan contradict other economic policies that are part of his trade agenda, or his immigration plans. The administration lacks a overall economic vision that holds together, analysts said. Trump’s aides, including Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, argue that his plans could spur much faster economic growth — expansion of 4% per year or more. Many independent economists scoff at that. So far this year, the economy has grown at an anemic 0.7%, Puzzanghera reported this morning. BACKING AWAY FROM THE BORDER WALL Another promise going by the wayside, at least for now, is Trump’s proposed wall on the southwestern border. The White House had wanted Congress to include millions of dollars to get the wall started as part of a stopgap spending bill. But as Mascaro reported, neither Democrats nor Republicans want to pay for Trump’s wall. Late Tuesday, Trump backed down, dropping his insistence that Congress include money for the wall in the spending bill. White House officials say they’ll renew the request in October. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly has already made clear that the border barrier won’t stretch from “sea to shining sea,” as he put it. And he’s also said that in some places the barrier will be a fence, or perhaps electronic monitoring, not a wall. The longer the discussion goes on, the more the upshot sounds like more of what the government already built under Presidents George W. Bush and Obama. Lacking big, visible accomplishments in areas like immigration, the administration has fallen back on smaller ones. This week, Kelly announced his department was creating a special office to assist people allegedly harmed by illegal immigrants, Joe Tanfani wrote. Meanwhile, the administration continues to lob rhetorical volleys at so-called sanctuary cities, local jurisdictions that to one extent or another refuse to participate in some federal immigration enforcement actions. This week, Federal District Judge William H. Orrick granted San Francisco and Santa Clara County an injunction forbidding the administration from cutting off funds, as Trump has threatened to do. As David Savage wrote, Trump’s threats could be undone by the type of conservative rulings he has praised in the past. In particular, a 5-4 decision by the late Justice Antonin Scalia provides strong support for Orrick’s ruling. The federal government “may not compel the states to enact or administer a federal regulatory program,” Scalia wrote in that case, in which conservatives challenged federal efforts at gun control. Now, it will be liberals going to court, and they’ll be citing those rulings limiting federal power. AND NAFTATrump was poised this week to announce that the U. S. would begin the process of pulling out of the NAFTA treaty with Canada and Mexico. But he backed away. He has, however, picked several smaller fights over trade, including an announcement this week that the U. S. would impose large tariffs on imported Canadian lumber, Lee reported. That will please American lumber producers in the Northwest and elsewhere, but could raise the costs of home building. LESS HESITATION ON THE ENVIRONMENT The policy area where the new administration has shown fewest second thoughts is the environment. On that front, Trump has been “a wrecking ball right out of the gate,” Rep. Jared Huffman of San Rafael, a top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, told Evan Halper. The administration has moved rapidly to start dismantling regulations and policies opposed by the coal and oil industries. Earlier this week, Trump signed an executive order that could lead to elimination of some national monuments. Today, he announced an order that could, over time, lead to more offshore drilling for oil and gas — and a further confrontation with coastal states, including California. There is hesitation on one front: Some Republicans are rethinking whether Trump should pull the U. S. out of the Paris agreement to limit global warming, Halper wrote. The U. S. might do better staying with the agreement and seeking to limit it, some lawmakers and industry officials argue. But some conservatives see yet another Trump promise melting away. TAKING THE KREMLIN’ S RUBLES Not all the week’s news involved abandoned promises. The investigation into Russia’s interference in the election also got new developments. Legal problems worsened for former national security advisor Mike Flynn, who is under investigation by the Pentagon’s inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, for taking more than $500,000 from Russian and Turkish interests, David Cloud reported. Retired military officers need advance approval to accept money from foreign governments. Flynn, a retired lieutenant general, appears not to have gotten that approval, according to the two leaders of the House Oversight Committee, Reps. Jason Chaffetz ( R- Utah) and Elijah Cummings ( D- Md.). Flynn also figures in the FBI investigation into whether anyone associated with Trump or his campaign cooperated with Russia in its efforts to influence the presidential election. With Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions recused, supervision of that probe will fall to the department’s No. 2 official, Deputy Atty. Gen. Rod J. Rosenstein. Rosenstein won confirmation on Tuesday with bipartisan support. Joe Tanfani wrote an excellent profile. ALL THE PRESIDENT’ S TWEETS Twitter has long been Trump’s favored means of pushing his message. We’re compiling all of Trump’s tweets. It’s a great resource. Take a look. GRADE THE PRESIDENT Catch up on the events of the past 100 days, and let us know how you would grade Trump’s performance. LOGISTICS That wraps up this week. My colleague Sarah Wire will be back Monday with the weekday edition of Essential Politics. Until then, keep track of all the developments in national politics and the Trump administration with our Essential Washington blog, at our Politics page and on Twitter @latimespolitics. Send your comments, suggestions and news tips to politics@latimes.com. If you like this newsletter, tell your friends to sign up.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-tt-robots-economy-20170428-story.html
Robots will find friends in the new workplace. David Horsey / Los Angeles Times Top of the Ticket cartoon Top of the Ticket cartoon ( David Horsey / Los Angeles Times) Good news: The robots may not destroy us after all. A few weeks ago, I wrote a column that outlined the worries of big thinkers such as Stephen Hawking and Andrew Yang who are predicting a wave of job destruction caused by automation, robots and artificial intelligence. Michael Mandel begs to differ. Mandel is chief economic strategist at the Progressive Policy Institute. He and Bret Swanson, president of Entropy Economics LLC, just completed a study for the Tech CEO Council that foresees a rather bright economic future brought about by technological innovation. I recently interviewed Mandel and he made a compelling argument that the application of technology to the physical economy will, in time, produce more jobs, higher wages, greater productivity and all kinds of as-yet-unimagined business activity. The two doomsday narratives that are currently circulating — that robots will steal jobs and that productivity will lag more or less permanently — are as wrong as the 19th century fears that electrification would put people out of work, Mandel said. In fact, Mandel suggested, we are on the edge of a technological transformation every bit as revolutionary as the advent of electricity. Already, a dynamic new digital economy has arisen (think Microsoft, Apple and Google). The next step is to apply information technology to industries that deal with physical things. Mandel pointed out that this is already happening in two areas. The first is fracking. Technological innovations have enabled extraction companies to access heretofore unreachable energy reserves and, though this progress comes with a controversial environmental cost, there is no question fracking has created good-paying jobs and enhanced economic activity. The second is e-commerce. Beyond the digital component, e-commerce is about getting physical products shipped and delivered and the result is jobs for a lot more folks than just those who write computer code. Mandel points to Kentucky, where the big rise in e-commerce employment is transforming the state’s economy. It is an early example, he said, that the blessings of technology are “breaking out of the digital ghetto of the coastal states.” What about the jobs that will be lost to technological change, such as the truck and taxi drivers who will be put out of work once autonomous vehicles take to the road? The transformed economy will create many new and more stable jobs, Mandel insisted. Disruption is unsettling, he agreed, but it is wrong to focus only on disruption and not on the large gains and unimagined opportunities that await in the new economy. Robots, not immigrants, are taking American jobs David Horsey The robots are coming! The robots are coming! They are coming and they will completely alter our economic reality. However, instead of planning for this revolutionary change, America’s politicians — from Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders on down — continue to cling to the illusion that, with the... The robots are coming! The robots are coming! They are coming and they will completely alter our economic reality. However, instead of planning for this revolutionary change, America’s politicians — from Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders on down — continue to cling to the illusion that, with the... ( David Horsey) “ Dystopia does not have a historical precedent,” Mandel said. Instead, there are repeated examples of the reinvigorating power of new technology. During the first half of the 20th century, General Electric and General Motors became industrial giants offering high-wage employment thanks to innovations in technology and production methods. There may no longer have been jobs for whalers, blacksmiths and woodcutters, but most people were happy with the change. Americans rightly perceive the period just after World War II as a time of prosperity and abundant employment when the country’s middle class was solidified, but Mandel pointed out that the 1950s economy was built on innovations that came in the decades before and was preceded by the Great Depression and a lot of postwar talk about stagnation. He believes we are now at the beginning of another cycle that will lead to dramatic economic growth. It won’t happen tomorrow, he said, and, in fact, it may take an additional 15 years.“ The future will take longer to come than you expect, but then it will come in a rush,” Mandel said. Mandel does not have nightmares about robots. Instead, he told me, “ I wake up each day to see what we’ll be capable of tomorrow.” Not a bad way to start the day or to develop smart policies for the future. David. Horsey@latimes.com Follow me at @davidhorsey on Twitter
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-100-days-questions-answers-20170429-story.html
President Trump Olivier Douliery / Abaca Press President Trump has both ridiculed the 100-day benchmark and claimed to surpass any president to this point. President Trump has both ridiculed the 100-day benchmark and claimed to surpass any president to this point. ( Olivier Douliery / Abaca Press) On Saturday, President Trump will observe a milestone: his 100th day in office. It’s also a millstone. For nearly half a century, the marker has been used by pollsters, pundits and others who presume great wisdom to size up a fledgling White House and its still-green occupant. Presidents of both parties have objected to the somewhat arbitrary nature of the evaluations, which, in truth, don’t always coincide with the longer view of history.“ You can use the first 100 days to try to understand some of the style of a presidency,” said Julian E. Zelizer, a Princeton scholar who has written extensively on presidents and politics. “ But we really need to limit our analysis to that.” Even so, birds fly, fish swim and political observers are going to issue their report cards whether the president likes it or not, which he most certainly does not. Why 100 days? Why not? You’d prefer 99 or 101? Seriously. OK, it goes back to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his first term, starting when the country was mired in the Great Depression, with unemployment around 25% and the stock market flat on its back. In those early days of his presidency, the Democrat used a reassuring “fireside chat” — his radio address to the nation — to assuage panicky listeners and stop a run on the banking system. He also pushed more than a dozen major pieces of legislation through Congress, including a sweeping farm-relief bill, big public-works and social welfare programs, and significant banking and stock market regulations. It’s not an overstatement to say those 100 days drastically changed America in ways that continue to this day. So 100 days had a magical quality even then! Actually, the number was somewhat random, though it does have a portentous feel to it. In this case, one hundred just happened to be the number of days in the special session of Congress that opened March 9 and ended July 24, 1933. Has any president come close to matching FDR’s performance? No, although no president since has entered office under such grave circumstances. Lucky for us! Indeed. Perhaps the closest was President Obama, who came into the White House amid the Great Recession, the country’s worst economic downturn since its namesake back in the 1930s.“ You never want a serious crisis to go to waste,” said Rahm Emanuel, Obama’s politically pugnacious chief of staff, and the president capitalized on the anxious times by pushing through an expansive agenda, including an $800-billion economic stimulus plan. He also made it easier for women to sue for job discrimination, loosened a ban on stem cell research, extended healthcare coverage to millions of children, helped rescue General Motors and Chrysler, set aside huge tracts of wilderness for federal protection, moved to reduce tensions with Cuba and the Muslim world and traveled to Canada, Europe, Turkey and Latin America. Whew! How does Trump compare? Well, that presumes that government activism is a good thing, which not everyone would agree upon. That said, there is a strong bias toward action when it comes to evaluating presidential performance. So? Trump hasn’t pushed through a single major piece of legislation. Hmm. He must be humbled and quite chagrined, wondering what’s gone wrong. You crack me up. Come again? The president and his representatives have portrayed his first 100 days as an unparalleled success, surpassing even Roosevelt’s performance.“ I don’t think that there is a presidential period of time in the first 100 days where anyone has done nearly what we’ve been able to do,” Trump said. Like what? White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has pointed to stepped-up immigration enforcement, more than 30 executive orders that Trump has signed — many aimed at rolling back regulations imposed by Obama — and the Senate confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil M. Gorsuch. Trump also approved airstrikes on Syria and Afghanistan and pulled the U. S. out of the Trans- Pacific Partnership trade deal with several Asian countries. Given that performance, he must be quite enamored of the 100-day grading period. No, actually he’s dismissed the whole concept as ridiculous, even though during the campaign he embraced the benchmark, and complained that no matter what he does — “& it has been a lot,” he tweeted — the media will never give him appropriate credit. There he goes again! Now, now. In fairness, Trump is hardly alone in criticizing all the 100-day hoo-ha. In fact, ever since Roosevelt there’s been a sort of presidential tradition of scoffing at the benchmark; Obama derided it as the political equivalent of a “ Hallmark holiday.” But don’t those first 100 days tell a lot about, say, the 1,000 or so that follow? Not really. As Zelizer notes, Democrat Jimmy Carter was quite popular at the 100-day mark and his presidency is widely regarded as one of the least successful of modern times. Conversely, Republican Ronald Reagan and Democrat Bill Clinton both faced significant setbacks during their early months in office. Reagan’s legislative agenda was stymied until a wave of sympathy after he survived an assassin’s bullet. Clinton needed three tries to land himself an attorney general. Yet both ended up being far more popular, and successful, than the rocky beginnings of their administrations suggested. You’re saying, then, we can just ignore all the first-100-days blather? You’ve read this far. Go ahead.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-me-on-politics-column-20170427-story.html
At senators' town halls, voters take an uneven measure of Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein - LA Times Analysis At senators' town halls, voters take an uneven measure of Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein Sen. Dianne Feinstein Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times California's senior senator meets voters at a town hall meeting last week in Los Angeles. California's senior senator meets voters at a town hall meeting last week in Los Angeles. ( Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times) Any single event can mislead when it comes to deciphering the political environment. Many of the more than 18,000 people clamoring for Hillary Clinton on the Ohio State University campus in mid- October — her biggest audience to that point in the presidential campaign — probably did not foresee her blowout defeat in the state less than a month later. Nor did many see Donald Trump surviving the cataclysmic events that enveloped his presidential campaign. But, with appropriate caution, it’s safe to say that last week’s Los Angeles town halls featuring Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris spoke to the crosscurrents among Democrats today and the different approaches by — and difficulties facing — California’s two senators. Both town halls were held in politically active African American churches south of downtown: Feinstein’s at First African Methodist Episcopal and Harris’ at Holman United Methodist Church. The locations appeared calculated to set a floor of civility. At First AME, Feinstein spoke of the warmth she’d felt from that congregation going back decades; at Holman, the Rev. Kelvin Sauls reminded those gathered to see Harris that “we are in a sacred place.” Warmth wasn’t all that greeted Feinstein, who heard catcalls throughout from a crowd far more demanding than the one that greeted Harris the following day. The differences were obvious between the two Democrats, one starting her Washington career with more than five years to go before reelection, the other pondering whether to run for a fifth full term in 2018. Harris is the rookie, elected last November after two successful campaigns for state attorney general. That she campaigned during a time of anger and discontent seemed to give Harris a better understanding of where her audience was coming from and how to assuage their concerns. California single-payer healthcare bill passes first committee test Melanie Mason A sweeping measure that would establish government-run universal healthcare in California cleared its first legislative hurdle Wednesday as scores of supporters crammed into the Capitol to advocate for a single-payer system. The Senate Health Committee approved the measure on a 5-2 vote after a... A sweeping measure that would establish government-run universal healthcare in California cleared its first legislative hurdle Wednesday as scores of supporters crammed into the Capitol to advocate for a single-payer system. The Senate Health Committee approved the measure on a 5-2 vote after a... ( Melanie Mason) Most who attended appeared to see her as one of them and tabled any hard questions. And, to a great extent, Harris’ Senate career is prospective, the tough decisions ahead of her and not an assailable part of her record. Feinstein, the veteran, underscored her longevity in office by lapsing into Senate-speak, with occasional references to rules of order that matter not outside the Capitol. But she also offered pointed reminders of how long it can take to accomplish anything in Washington: Speaking of a measure she helped push to raise vehicle mileage standards, she noted that it had taken 10 years and cooperation with Republicans to succeed. Harris opened with an ode to the “pivotal moment” that she said the nation had reached. She made an overt call at several points to rise up against President Trump and his proposals, mocking his tough take on immigrants.“ They’re gonna deport almost 12 million people?” she asked with exaggerated sass. “ Now how you gonna do that?” The proper approach, she said to hearty applause, was to create a path to citizenship for those in the country who “are living a lawful life and paying taxes.” She spoke movingly about her optimism and the country’s values despite the unsettled political environment. She exhorted Democrats to run against Trump as if engaged in a long relay race.“ We cannot tire. We cannot tire because there is too much at stake,” she said. When Mark Halperin, one of the hosts of Showtime’s political series “ The Circus,” asked Harris afterward what “the resistance” meant to her, she offered multiple sound bites perfectly tailored to the mood of the moment, at least among the activist wing of the Democratic party. For more on politics »“ The resistance means, for a democracy, every voice being heard, every voice being valued and together, unified, those voices will show us what the future looks like,” she said, smiling. “ And I’m all for the resistance.” The day before, asked the same question, Feinstein responded not with poetry but with prose, with the sort of specifics she embraced through more than 24 years in the Senate.“ Resistance to me means doing the best I can to serve people in the way we do. It’s resistance to the president’s budget, which is just terrible. It’s resistance to executive orders which turn back history. It’s resistance to his position on immigration, which is hard,” she said, marching earnestly through a litany of issues. Her answers were not always what the more argumentative and partisan members of her crowd — and, increasingly, the Democratic base — wanted to hear. Protesters shouted when she declined to sign on to the Medicare-for-all insurance bill pushed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, the independent from Vermont. She preferred, she said, to fix Obamacare. They shouted again when she decried Russian interference in the presidential election. ( They wanted to talk about the Democrats’ own internal party squabbles.) When she acknowledged supporting Trump’s recent missile attack on a Syrian airbase, one screamed: “ You’re defending Trump!”“ I’m telling you how I see it,” she responded. “ Look, I have been drowned out by the very best,” she said later. “ I have seen it all. … I know the terrible things that happen and I know how to cure them. And there’s only one way to do it, and that’s to work together, and you can yell and scream and go out there and do whatever you want, and it doesn’t change anything.” Feinstein, at 83 the oldest member of the Senate, has said she will decide soon whether to run again. The last time she was on the ballot was in 2012, in the more placid Obama reelection year. A woman who became mayor of San Francisco in 1978 when her predecessor was assassinated seems unlikely to be put off by protesters, and Feinstein would remain a prohibitive favorite if she runs again. But her town hall was a reminder that even among Democrats, she is likely to face more scrutiny than she has in her prior races, which have been easy since a near-defeat in 1994. What America needed, she said, was “know-how” and the willingness to put together the compromises disdained by many.“ That ought to be worth something,” she said. Her words might have been a swan song about a time gone past. Or they might be the message that Feinstein will lean on next year, whether or not it placates the most impatient voters in these fraught times.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-house-healthcare-20170427-story.html
FILE - In this April 4, 2017 file photo, House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. finishes a news conference J. Scott Applewhite / Associated Press House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters that leaders were making progress but added, “ We're going to go when we have the votes.” House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters that leaders were making progress but added, “ We're going to go when we have the votes.” ( J. Scott Applewhite / Associated Press) The House won't vote on Republican legislation that would scuttle much of President Obama's healthcare law until at least next week, a GOP leader said late Thursday. The decision deals a setback to the White House, which has pressured congressional Republicans to pass the bill by Saturday, President Trump's 100th day in office.“ As soon as we have the votes, we'll vote on it,” House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy ( R- Bakersfield) told reporters after leaving a meeting of the House GOP leadership that lasted nearly two hours. He said the vote would not occur Friday or Saturday. White House and Republican leaders had labored all day to wring votes out of resistant moderate GOP lawmakers for the healthcare measure. But they remained shy of the number they'd need to revive a Republican bill that was withdrawn last month for lack of support, and it was uncertain when a vote on the revamped legislation might occur. Centrist Republicans were the primary target of the lobbying, a day after the conservative House Freedom Caucus announced its support for the revised proposal. The fresh backing from that group exhumed the bill from the legislative graveyard, but leaders need moderates who've resisted entreaties to jump aboard. While the White House was eager for a vote this week, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) wants to avoid an encore of last month's embarrassment, when he had to abruptly cancel the vote on the initial proposal because of opposition from moderates and conservatives alike. Ryan told reporters that leaders were making progress but added, “ We're going to go when we have the votes.” He noted that he had spoken earlier this year about a 200-day legislative plan because of the complexity of revamping the nation's health system, its tax code and border security. GOP shuts out doctors, experts, Democrats — pretty much everybody — as they work on Obamacare repeal Noam N. Levey President Trump and House Republicans, in their rush to resuscitate a bill rolling back the Affordable Care Act, are increasingly isolating themselves from outside input and rejecting entreaties to work collaboratively, according to multiple healthcare officials who have tried to engage GOP leaders.... President Trump and House Republicans, in their rush to resuscitate a bill rolling back the Affordable Care Act, are increasingly isolating themselves from outside input and rejecting entreaties to work collaboratively, according to multiple healthcare officials who have tried to engage GOP leaders.... ( Noam N. Levey) Trump and Vice President Mike Pence spoke to at least one resistant conservative who is now a yes vote. Rep. Mo Brooks ( R- Ala.) said he'd already decided to switch to backing the revamped bill on Wednesday before he got two phone calls from Pence, who on the second call handed the phone to Trump.“ Donald Trump expressed his appreciation for the position I was taking,” Brooks said Thursday. “ That gives you a good feeling inside about what you're doing.” The recast bill would let states escape a requirement under Obama's healthcare law that insurers charge healthy and seriously ill people the same rates. They could also be exempted from the mandate that insurers cover a list of services such as maternity care and mental health care, and from its bar against charging older customers more than triple the rates for younger ones. Overall, the legislation would cut the Medicaid program for the poor, eliminate Obamacare’s fines for people who don't buy insurance and provide generally skimpier subsidies. Democrats remain solidly against the legislation, which they said would make healthcare coverage less available and costlier. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) told reporters that for Republicans, voting for the bill “is going to be doo-doo stuck to their shoe for a long time.” Conservatives embraced the revisions as a way to lower people's healthcare expenses. Moderates saw them as diminishing coverage because insurers could make policies for their least healthy customers too costly for them to afford.“ No bill is going to solve every issue,” said Rep. Tom Mac Arthur ( R- N. J.), who crafted the newest edition of the legislation with Rep. Mark Meadows ( R- N. C.), who heads the House Freedom Caucus. Mac Arthur is a leader of the roughly 50 moderate Republicans who make up the House Tuesday Group, but it is unclear whether he has won over many of their votes, and he conceded that some “are struggling to get to yes.” Two moderate Pennsylvania Republicans affirmed Thursday they would vote no — Reps. Patrick Meehan, who'd been publicly undeclared, and Ryan Costello, who'd said he'd have opposed the original bill. Both cited fears that the new bill would leave people with serious illnesses unprotected. Meehan said he was called recently by Pence and lobbied “by everyone in leadership.” The American Medical Assn. said it opposed the refashioned bill, as it did the original legislation. The doctors' group said letting insurers boost premiums for people with preexisting conditions “will likely lead to patients losing their coverage.” Some lawmakers and GOP aides suggested leaders were less than 10 Republican votes away from the 216 needed to prevail. No Democrat has supported either version of the bill.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-trump-offshore-drilling-20170427-story.html
Trump signs order that could open California coastal waters to new drilling The move sets up yet another clash with California, whose leaders are vowing to block new drilling off the state’s coast.   The move sets up yet another clash with California, whose leaders are vowing to block new drilling off the state’s coast.   President Trump on Friday is expected to sign an executive order that could open large parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans to new oil and gas drilling, a prospect that elicited a fierce backlash in California and elsewhere even before details of the order were clear. The move, which is certain to face legal and political challenges, could undo a plan finalized late in President Obama’s second term that sought to limit fossil fuel development and fight climate change by not including new drilling leases off the coast of California or Alaska during the current five-year federal offshore plan, which extends through 2022. Many leaders in California have long sought a permanent ban on new leasing offshore, and they reacted swiftly to the possibility that drilling could expand.“ California will fight this every step of the way,” Sen. Dianne Feinstein ( D- Calif.) said late Thursday. “ We do not want oil drilling off our coast. Period.” The directive, called the America First Offshore Energy Executive Order, also would reverse a broad permanent ban Obama put in place in most of the Arctic’s Beaufort and Chukchi seas. Salvage teams conduct an assessment of Shell's Kulluk drill barge on Jan. 9, 2013, in Kodiak Island' Tim Aubry / Greenpeace / AFP/ Getty Images Salvage teams conduct an assessment of Shell's Kulluk drill barge on Jan. 9, 2013, in Kodiak Island's Kiliuda Bay in Alaska. Salvage teams conduct an assessment of Shell's Kulluk drill barge on Jan. 9, 2013, in Kodiak Island's Kiliuda Bay in Alaska. ( Tim Aubry / Greenpeace / AFP/ Getty Images) By late Thursday, that move and the possibility of any changes to the leasing plan were already prompting vows of legal challenges and public resistance. Revising the leasing program could take two years or more under federal rule-making procedures and would require public input, while attempting to reverse the permanent ban in the Arctic would wade into what experts say is murky legal territory. Although debate over Arctic drilling has persisted for years — Royal Dutch Shell conducted exploratory drilling there in 2015 — the public has been largely aligned against expanding offshore drilling in California for decades. The Trump administration seemed to acknowledge that expanding drilling in California could be an uphill battle. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke ( Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press) In a briefing about the order, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who would carry out the directive, emphasized that the administration will weigh public opinion in areas where drilling might occur, and he noted California’s opposition.“ I was out in Santa Barbara recently,” he said. “ There’s a lot of people who don’t like it out there.” Still, California officials were not appeased. Some cited the massive 1969 spill off the coast of Santa Barbara that helped launch the modern environmental movement. Others pointed to the state’s ongoing effort to reduce the role of fossil fuels and boost renewable energy. Although 27 oil platforms continue operating off the state’s coast, new drilling leases have been banned in state waters since 1969, and no new leases have been issued in federal waters since 1984. Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who serves as chairman of the California State Lands Commission, suggested that the state could prevent new pipelines from being constructed between drill rigs and the shore.“ California’s door is closed to President Trump’s Pacific oil and gas drilling,” Newsom said in an emailed statement, adding that the commission “is unequivocally resolved to create an environmental rampart along California’s coast.” Gov. Jerry Brown joined the governors of Oregon and Washington in a joint statement that recalled spills off the coasts of all three states.“ We remember the oil-soaked beaches and wildlife and the devastating economic impacts to local communities and the fishing industry,” the governors said. “ Now is not the time to turn back the clock. We cannot return to the days where the federal government put the interests of big oil above our communities and treasured coastline.” The Arctic presents a different political dynamic. Experts say as many as 24 billion barrels of oil and 104 trillion cubic feet of natural gas could be extracted from beneath the region’s sea floor off the coast of Alaska, and state leaders there have long pushed to open the area for drilling, in part to help offset declining production on land. But the region is fraught with challenges, including its remote location and brutal conditions, rare and vulnerable whale and walrus species, and the high cost of working there at a time when oil prices are low. Shell’s effort to drill there in 2015, after spending more than seven years and $7 billion in planning, ended with the company saying its results were disappointing and that it would abandon the region for the foreseeable future. Last year, then- Interior Secretary Sally Jewell cited “the unique and challenging Arctic environment and industry’s declining interest in the area” as reasons not to issue new leases there. Alaska leaders dismissed the Obama administration’s actions as disconnected from the will of most state residents. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, accused the former president of treating Alaska like “a snow globe” and expressed hope that Trump would reverse Obama’s actions. Environmental groups questioned Trump’s legal authority to issue the new order and railed against his rejection of Obama’s climate efforts.“ We’ll fight this move to sell out our children’s future for big oil and gas,” said Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council. Trump’s order is not a surprise. Throughout his campaign, he vowed to roll back environmental regulations. After Trump won, Obama made more moves that experts said could stir novel legal fights. To issue the permanent drilling ban in the Arctic, Obama relied on the rarely used Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act of 1953. The act says the president “may, from time to time, withdraw” federal waters from oil and gas development that are not already leased, but it does not specify whether another president can reverse a withdrawal. The Trump order goes beyond questions of leasing. It also will instruct Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross not to create or expand national marine sanctuaries and to review designations and expansions of marine sanctuaries created in the past decade. The fact sheet provided by the White House said it wanted to determine whether there is “energy or mineral resource potential” within monument areas.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-flynn-investigation-20170427-story.html
Michael Flynn Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press Michael Flynn accepted payments from a Russian government-owned broadcasting company and a lobbying firm representing Turkey, according to the House Oversight Committee. Michael Flynn accepted payments from a Russian government-owned broadcasting company and a lobbying firm representing Turkey, according to the House Oversight Committee. ( Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press) Former national security advisor Michael Flynn’s legal troubles worsened Thursday when a House committee disclosed that the Pentagon inspector general is investigating whether the retired Army three-star general violated military rules by accepting foreign payments. Flynn was warned in 2014, when he was retiring from the military, not to accept payments from foreign governments without advance approval from the Pentagon, according to documents released Thursday by a House committee. Flynn subsequently accepted more than $500,000 from a Russian government-owned broadcasting company and from a lobbying company representing Turkey, according to the committee. The Pentagon inspector general is investigating whether Flynn “failed to obtain required approval” to accept those funds, acting Inspector General Glenn A. Fine wrote in an April 11 letter to the House Oversight Committee, which is investigating Flynn’s foreign business ties. Retired military officers found to have violated the prohibition on accepting foreign payments can be ordered to return pension payments during the time of the violations, according to the Pentagon. The committee probe is one of several in Congress looking at whether any of President Trump’s current or former aides improperly coordinated with Russian operatives during last year’s presidential campaign. The FBI is conducting a separate counterintelligence investigation. Trump order could open California coast, Arctic to new oil and gas drilling William Yardley and Chris Megerian President Trump on Friday is expected to sign an executive order that could open large parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans to new oil and gas drilling, a prospect that elicited a fierce backlash in California and elsewhere even before details of the order were clear. The move, which... President Trump on Friday is expected to sign an executive order that could open large parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans to new oil and gas drilling, a prospect that elicited a fierce backlash in California and elsewhere even before details of the order were clear. The move, which... ( William Yardley and Chris Megerian) Earlier this week, the House committee said that Flynn also failed to disclose the foreign payments when he signed a government disclosure form required to renew his government security clearance in early 2016, shortly after he had returned from Moscow.“ These documents raise grave questions about why Gen. Flynn concealed the payments he received from foreign sources after he was warned explicitly by the Pentagon,” Rep. Elijah Cummings ( D- Md.), the top Democrat on the committee, said Thursday. Rep. Jason Chaffetz ( R- Utah), the committee chairman, separately released a letter that asked the acting Army secretary for a “final determination” as to whether Flynn had violated the law regarding the foreign payments. Military officers, including retirees, are barred under the Constitution from accepting payments, gifts or items of value from foreign governments without congressional permission. After leaving the military, Flynn opened a government relations company and became a top advisor to the Trump campaign last year. Trump subsequently named him White House national security advisor. But Flynn was forced to resign after less than a month when news reports revealed he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other top officials about his conversations in December with Russia’s ambassador about easing U. S. sanctions on Russia. These documents raise grave questions about why Gen. Flynn concealed the payments he received from foreign sources. — Rep. Elijah Cummings ( D- Md.) The Defense Intelligence Agency, the Pentagon spy agency that Flynn headed before he retired, said that it had found no evidence that Flynn had sought permission to accept foreign government payments. The DIA did not locate any records of Flynn “seeking permission or approval for the receipt of money from a foreign source,” Christine Kapnisi, the agency’s acting head of congressional relations, said in an April 11 letter to the House committee. Flynn accepted a $33,750 fee to attend a December 2015 gala in Moscow sponsored by RT, a Russian state-run TV network, and to attend a lunch where he sat beside Russian President Vladimir Putin. Flynn’s company, Flynn Intel Group, also received $530,000 last fall — at the height of the U. S. presidential campaign — for work that benefited the government in Turkey, the House committee found. Flynn retroactively disclosed that work last month on a federal disclosure form. Flynn was reminded when he retired that accepting unauthorized payments from foreign governments was prohibited, according to the DIA letter. He “was advised of the legal restrictions concerning foreign compensations and instructed to report any potential receipt of compensations in advance,” DIA said. Flynn’s attorney, Robert Kelner, said his client briefed DIA before and after the Moscow event and that his appearance was arranged by a firm Flynn had retained to set up speaking events.“ General Flynn provided two briefings to the Department — one before and one after” his trip to Russia, Kelner said in a statement. “ The Department was fully aware of the trip.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-children-in-immigration-database-20170426-story.html
Homeland Security database alleges babies and children are criminals On Feb. 16, people across the country are participating in the national “ Day Without Immigrants.” On Feb. 16, people across the country are participating in the national “ Day Without Immigrants.” ( April 27, 2017) The Trump administration’s online database of immigrants in detention was supposed to help the public search for potential criminals. But when it launched Wednesday, an immigration attorney noticed something unusual: babies. Turns out, the system mistakenly included children in immigration custody, some as young as a few months. A 3-year-old boy from El Salvador detained in Texas and a 4-year-old Guatemalan girl in Phoenix were among scores of children listed in the public system. The database also included unaccompanied minors — children who came to the United States without their parents — who are currently held in group homes. Department of Homeland Security officials said the release of children’s names was a lapse in policy that arose because a filter was not applied to the data made available on the website.“ The Department of Homeland Security’s policy is and remains to protect the information of minors in our custody,” said Gillian M. Christensen, a spokeswoman for the agency. By late Wednesday evening, the department had fixed the problem. But concerns remained about the amount of private information still easily available to the public, including potential asylum applicants whose identities are supposed to be confidential under DHS policy. The searchable database is the latest effort by the Trump administration to spotlight crimes committed by immigrants who are in the country illegally. It was launched under a high-profile rollout of the Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement Office, or VOICE, that is intended to help what administration officials have, is supposed to list everyone currently in federal immigration custody. It allows users to search with as few as three letters of a last name and a first initial, along with country of birth or date of birth. A search by the Los Angeles Times under “ A” for first name, “ Mar” for last name and Guatemala as country of origin pulled up 50 matches. The matches reveal the detention facility the immigrant is housed in, custody status, age, country of birth, date of birth, race, gender and aliases. There doesn’t appear to be any way to distinguish between someone who may have perpetrated a crime beyond being in the country illegally. Attorneys representing immigrants expressed anger and worry over the release of names that were supposed to be protected. Bryan Johnson, the Long Island, N. Y., lawyer who first noticed the error, called the release “reckless incompetence on the part of the Trump administration.”“ In their haste to pretend like they care about victims of immigrant crimes, the Trump administration released personally identifiable information regarding vulnerable children at risk of human trafficking and other crimes,” said Johnson, who defends children brought into the United States from abroad, many escaping violence. Matthew Kolken, an immigration attorney in New York, said he was shocked that a quick search of the database brought up one of his clients — a 26-year-old asylum applicant from Lebanon who has been detained by immigration officials for two years. The man had overstayed his visa and sought asylum because he is a pro-democracy leader in a youth movement back home and being persecuted by Hezbollah, Kolken said.“ If a terrorist organization is looking for him they may simply enter his name into a database and know exactly where he is,” Kolken said. “ It puts his entire family back home in jeopardy.” The names of asylum seekers are also kept secret to protect them from retaliation in the event that asylum is denied and they are sent back home.“ The United States needs to be taking its obligations seriously to keep vulnerable asylum seekers' identities confidential,” Kolken said. A DHS spokesperson said the database does not violate privacy policies because it doesn’t identify anybody as an asylum applicant. Critics of the Trump administration said that Homeland Security Secretary John F. Kelly’s announcement of the database was more about politics than public safety, and that it was timed to add luster to President Trump’s uneven record before his administration hits the 100-day mark on Saturday. DHS spokesman David Lapan rejected that claim." This effort has been underway for some time and was announced [ Wednesday] after we were able to establish the mission, procedures and people assigned to duties associated with the VOICE office, irrespective of the 100-day marker,” Lapan said. Advocates for immigrants said the administration is trying to demonize immigrants as criminals and whip up public support for aggressive new deportation operations and billions of dollars in additional spending for border security. This isn’t the first time the Trump administration has erred in releasing information aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration. Under Trump, Immigration and Customs Enforcement began publishing reports on the cities and other jurisdictions that were releasing immigrants from jail or after arrest, flouting requests to hold certain immigrants for transfer to federal detention. But the first few reports were plagued by errors. In some cases, ICE mixed up names, confusing Franklin counties in Iowa, New York and Pennsylvania. In other cases, the detainees had already been picked up by ICE, or had never been released in the first place. Earlier this month, ICE suspended publication of the reports. A new federal office will seek to assist victims of crimes committed by immigrants Joseph Tanfani. In the latest Trump administration effort to spotlight crimes committed by immigrants in the country illegally, the head of Homeland Security on Tuesday launched a new office to help what he said are forgotten victims.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-obamacare-republican-bubble-20170427-story.html
GOP shuts out doctors, experts, Democrats — pretty much everybody — as they work on Obamacare repeal - LA Times LA 90: GOP refusing to consult experts on Obamacare repeal House Republicans are shutting out doctors, experts and Democrats as they work on an Obamacare repeal. ( April 28, 2017)   House Republicans are shutting out doctors, experts and Democrats as they work on an Obamacare repeal. ( April 28, 2017)   President Trump and House Republicans, in their rush to resuscitate a bill rolling back the Affordable Care Act, are increasingly isolating themselves from outside input and rejecting entreaties to work collaboratively, according to multiple healthcare officials who have tried to engage GOP leaders. The White House and its House GOP allies are hoping to reschedule a vote on their overhaul plan in the coming days, following last month’s embarrassing retreat when the bill was pulled shortly before a vote. But they continue to refuse to reach out to Democrats. Even Senate Republicans have been largely sidelined, though their support will be crucial to putting a measure on Trump’s desk. And senior House Republicans and White House officials have almost completely shut out doctors, hospitals, patient advocates and others who work in the healthcare system, industry officials say, despite pleas from many healthcare leaders to seek an alternative path that doesn’t threaten protections for tens of millions of Americans.“ To think you are going to revamp the entire American healthcare system without involving any of the people who actually deliver healthcare is insanity,” said Sister Carol Keehan, president of the Catholic Health Assn., whose members include many of the nation’s largest medical systems. Health insurers, who initially found House Republicans and Trump administration officials open to suggestions for improving insurance markets, say it is increasingly difficult to have realistic discussions, according to numerous industry officials.“ They’re not interested in how health policy actually works,” said one insurance company official, who asked not to be identified discussing conversations with GOP officials. “ It’s incredibly frustrating.” Another longtime healthcare lobbyist, who also did not want to be identified criticizing Republicans, said he’d never seen legislation developed with such disregard for expert input. “ It is totally divorced from reality,” he said. The result may be a short-term victory for House leaders and the White House as Trump nears his 100-day mark, assuming they muster the votes this time. But prospects for final passage of a healthcare overhaul bill remain dim. Obamacare 101: A periodic primer on the debate over repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act » How some of the Supreme Court's conservative opinions may lead to a liberal victory on 'sanctuary' cities Liberal sanctuary cities in California and elsewhere may well win their legal battle against President Trump thanks to Supreme Court rulings once heralded by conservatives, including a 2012 opinion that shielded red states from President Obama’s plans to expand Medicaid coverage for low-income... Liberal sanctuary cities in California and elsewhere may well win their legal battle against President Trump thanks to Supreme Court rulings once heralded by conservatives, including a 2012 opinion that shielded red states from President Obama’s plans to expand Medicaid coverage for low-income... Read the story House Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s office did not respond to a request for comment. Trump and senior House Republicans have steadfastly defended their bill, however, promising it would lower healthcare costs while preserving protections for vulnerable Americans.“ The plan gets better and better and better,” Trump said last week at the White House. “ And it’s gotten really, really good. And a lot of people are liking it a lot.” House Republican leaders are now working to win over wavering members of their caucus with a proposed amendment making it easier for states to drop key protections in the current law that, among other things, prohibit insurers from charging sick people more for coverage.“ What this amendment does is it gives states more flexibility and tools to reduce premiums and increase choices,” Ryan, of Wisconsin, said Thursday, explaining states would still have to assure coverage is available for sick consumers, even if they are priced out of the market. But not a single major group representing doctors, hospitals and patients supported the original House legislation, which the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated would increase the ranks of the uninsured by 24 million over the next decade. Opposition among those who work in healthcare has only deepened amid the current GOP efforts to win over conservative lawmakers with the new amendment, with the American Medical Assn. and the American Hospital Assn. restating their rejection of the House legislation. The American Cancer Society’s advocacy arm — one of many leading groups representing patients with serious illnesses who have spoken out against the GOP campaign to repeal Obamacare — warned of the return of “a patchwork system of health coverage in which patients with preexisting conditions in some states would no longer be protected.” The powerful AARP said that provisions in the House bill would push up insurance costs for older Americans while doing nothing to tackle high prescription drug costs. And on Wednesday, a coalition of six leading physician groups representing more than 560,000 doctors — including pediatricians, family physicians and obstetricians — urged congressional leaders to put aside the House GOP legislation and work with doctors on an alternative that would not jeopardize insurance coverage for millions of Americans.“ Our members see firsthand the important role that healthcare coverage and access to affordable, high-quality care plays in people’s lives and their pursuit of better health and well-being,” the groups wrote.“ They also recall those days when patients faced discrimination based on their age, gender or health conditions, and remember when those with mental and behavioral health needs were denied coverage.” The House legislation would dismantle Obamacare’s extensive system for expanding health insurance coverage to millions of Americans, cutting nearly $1 trillion in federal aid that has allowed states to expand the Medicaid safety net programs and scaling back tax subsidies that help millions of low- and middle-income Americans buy commercial healthcare plans. A proposed amendment to the bill that House Republicans are now considering could also weaken other consumer protections in the current law, including mandates that require health insurers to cover basic benefits such as mental health and maternity care. At the same time, the House bill would repeal major taxes that the current law imposed to fund the expansion of health coverage. That would deliver major tax breaks to the medical device and insurance industries and to wealthy Americans. The House bill also scraps the unpopular requirement in the current law that Americans have insurance or pay a penalty. The House bill is deeply unpopular, with polls showing fewer than one in five Americans backing the legislation. Even many Republican senators — including conservatives such as Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina — have voiced deep reservations about the legislation. And after the bill appeared to collapse last month when GOP leaders didn’t have enough votes to bring it to the House floor, many who work in the healthcare system pleaded with the White House and congressional Republicans to undertake a new, more collaborative approach.“ This is not a problem either party can solve alone, but it is solvable with bipartisan efforts,” the Catholic Health Assn. noted at the time. Rohit Kumar, who was a senior aide to former Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist ( R- Tenn.), said that imperative remains even more crucial today.“ If you’re going to make progress, you’re going to have to bring in more stakeholders,” said Kumar, a leading tax and healthcare advisor at consulting giant Pw C. That simply hasn’t happened, according to multiple healthcare leaders. When asked if he’d been contacted by any Republican leaders for suggestions about ways to improve the legislation that failed last month, a senior lobbyist at one leading patient advocacy group simply laughed out loud. A side-by-side comparison of Obamacare and the GOP’s replacement plan »
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-court-sanctuary-analysis-20170427-story.html
How some of the Supreme Court's conservative opinions may lead to a liberal victory on 'sanctuary' cities - LA Times Analysis How some of the Supreme Court's conservative opinions may lead to a liberal victory on 'sanctuary' cities President Donald Trump speaks during a reception for inaugural law enforcement officers and first re Alex Brandon / Associated Press President Trump speaks during a reception for law enforcement officers and first responders at the White House on Sunday. President Trump speaks during a reception for law enforcement officers and first responders at the White House on Sunday. ( Alex Brandon / Associated Press) Liberal sanctuary cities in California and elsewhere may well win their legal battle against President Trump thanks to Supreme Court rulings once heralded by conservatives, including a 2012 opinion that shielded red states from President Obama’s plans to expand Medicaid coverage for low-income Americans. On Tuesday, a federal judge in San Francisco temporarily blocked enforcement of Trump’s sanctuary city executive order, resting his ruling on high court decisions that protected states and localities from federal meddling. In the 2012 case, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said it was unconstitutional for Obama and the Democratic-controlled Congress to demand that Republican-led states expand Medicaid or face the threat of losing federal Medicaid money. That is akin to “a gun to the head,” Roberts said, leaving the states no choice but to comply. The same is true with Trump’s executive order on sanctuary cities, U. S. District Judge William H. Orrick said in Tuesday’s decision. Trump’s Jan. 25 order declared that jurisdictions that do not fully comply with federal immigration enforcement laws “do not receive federal funds, except as mandated by law.” It was not clear what funds would be withheld, but Trump in a TV interview said he could use “defunding” as a “weapon” to force the cities to get in line. Orrick said San Francisco and Santa Clara County took the threat of a funding cutoff seriously, just as the Republican states said they feared a cutoff of their Medicaid money. This threat is “unconstitutionally coercive,” he said. “ The executive order threatens to deny sanctuary jurisdictions all federal grants, hundreds of millions of dollars on which the counties rely.” Orrick, an Obama appointee, also quoted at length from a 1997 opinion by the late Justice Antonin Scalia that shielded county sheriffs from conducting background checks on new gun buyers. The Brady Act required local police chiefs to check to see if new buyers were eligible to own a handgun, but county sheriffs in Montana and elsewhere refused, arguing the federal government could not force them to comply. By a 5-4 vote, the Supreme Court agreed. “ The federal government may not compel the states to enact or administer a federal regulatory program,” Scalia said. It may not “command the states’ officers, or those of their political subdivisions, to administer or enforce a federal regulatory program.” Scalia’s words about federal background checks apply equally to the federal government’s effort to arrest and detain immigrants who are subject to deportation, Orrick said. Although cities and counties may choose to aid federal immigration officers, “the executive order uses coercive means in an attempt to force states and local jurisdictions to honor civil detainer requests,” he wrote. He said this violates the 10th Amendment, which leaves some power “reserved to the states respectively, or to the people.” Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University in Arlington, Va., described Orrick’s decision as “an important victory for both federalism and separation of powers. Some conservative Republicans may not like the outcome of this specific case,” he wrote on the Volokh Conspiracy blog. “ But they will have reason to celebrate it the next time a liberal Democratic president tries a similar move.” On Wednesday, Trump called the decision “ridiculous” in a tweet. “ First the Ninth Circuit rules against the ban & now it hits again on sanctuary cities—both ridiculous rulings. See you in the Supreme Court,” he wrote. Trump’s lawyers say the administration is simply trying to enforce a provision of federal law that says a state or local government “may not prohibit, or in any way restrict, any government entity or official from sending to, or receiving from, the Immigration and Naturalization Service information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any individual.” The executive order pledges to enforce this provision to the “fullest extent of the law.” However, the order did not carefully define what is a sanctuary city and what officials must do to be in compliance with the federal law. Because Orrick is a district judge in San Francisco, the administration will appeal first to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. If it loses there, it can appeal to the Supreme Court. Next month, the 4th Circuit Court in Virginia and the 9th Circuit Court in California will hear the Trump administration’s appeals of a pair of judges’ rulings that blocked the revised travel ban on people coming from six mostly Muslim countries. There, Trump’s lawyers can argue that the Constitution and federal law gives the executive broad power to restrict who enters the country. By contrast, the dispute over sanctuary cities turns on the president’s power over states and localities. Trump’s lawyers may face an uphill fight. In Orrick’s courtroom, Trump’s lawyers tried to save the executive order by arguing that it was legally meaningless and would not threaten funds going to San Francisco or Santa Clara. Somin said Trump’s lawyers will face a stiff challenge.“ If the case gets to the Supreme Court, which I am not at all sure would happen, I think it’s likely that either the court would rule along the same as lines as Judge Orrick, ” he said, or perhaps opt for the administration’s view that the order is exceedingly narrow and “largely meaningless.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-national-monuments-pictures-20170426-htmlstory.html
National Monuments BLM, NOAA, Los Angeles Times National monuments established since 1996 that are at least 100,000 acres are subject to review, and could be reduced or eliminated under President Trump's executive order. National monuments established since 1996 that are at least 100,000 acres are subject to review, and could be reduced or eliminated under President Trump's executive order. ( BLM, NOAA, Los Angeles Times) President Trump signed an executive order Wednesday calling for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to review national monuments created by Presidents Clinton, George W. Bush and Obama. These monuments were set aside as public land under the 1906 Antiquities Act, which gives presidents the power to limit use of public land for historic, cultural, scientific or other reasons. (@latimesgraphics) In advance of the signing ceremony, Zinke said the order would apply only to monuments created since Jan. 1, 1996, that are at least 100,000 acres. Here are the national monuments listed by the White House as being under review. Bears Ears The 1.3-million-acre Bears Ears National Monument in the remote desert canyonlands of southern Utah was designated by President Obama, who created more national monuments than any other president. The Bears Ears designation angered Republican politicians in Utah, who want the land available for possible gas, oil and mining use -- and who directed Trump’s attention to the issue of national monuments. He said that the Bears Ears designation “never should have happened” and that it was part of “this massive federal land grab that’s gotten worse and worse and worse.” Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument ( NOAA Ocean Explorer) Established Sept. 15, 2016: Designated by President Obama, it is the first marine national monument in the Atlantic Ocean. The monument, encompassing 4,913 square miles off the coast of New England, protects ecological resources and species including deep-sea corals; sperm, fin, and sei whales; Kemp's ridley sea turtles; and deep-sea fish. Sand to Snow ( Bob Wick / Bureau of Land Management) Established Feb. 12, 2016: Located in Southern California, the site totals 154,000 acres, including just over 100,000 acres that had previously been designated wilderness by Congress. According to the Bureau of Land Management website, Sand to Snow National Monument is “one of the most biodiverse areas in Southern California, supporting more than 240 species of birds and 12 threatened and endangered wildlife species.” Mojave Trails (obamawhitehouse.archives.gov) Established Feb. 12, 2016: The Mojave Trails National Monument spans 1.6 million acres, a quarter of which had been previously congressionally designated wilderness. The area runs along a 105-mile stretch of old Route 66 between Ludlow and Needles and includes rugged mountain ranges, ancient lava flows and sand dunes. Before its designation as a national monument, the area was a popular destination for rock hounds looking to take home interesting gems and minerals. Basin and Range ( Tyler Roemer) Established July 10, 2015: Known for its lunar-like landscapes, Basin and Range National Monument in southeast Nevada covers 704,000 acres of desert mountains and valleys. It’s roughly double the size of the city of Los Angeles. About a two hours northwest of Las Vegas by car, the site includes rock art, 19th century settlements and Native American sites. Berryessa Snow Mountain (berryessasnowmountain.org) Established July 10, 2015: This Northern California monument is about 331,000 acres, extending from nearly sea level in the south to peaks of 7,000 feet. The area is a popular winter habitat for bald eagles. The federal designation connected three wilderness areas and also protects cultural sites of Native Americans, who lived in the area for at least 11,000 years. Organ Mountains- Desert Peaks ( Bureau of Land Management) Established May 21, 2014: This is the land of famed western legends like Billy the Kid, Geronimo. The Organ Mountains Desert Peaks National Monument’s 496,000 acres surround Las Cruces, N. M., and include mountains and the southwestern Chihuahuan Desert. The area, which also features canyons lined in petroglyphs, was a training ground for World War II bomber pilots and crews and the Apollo space program. Rio Grande del Norte ( Bureau of Land Management) Established March 25, 2013: The rugged, wide-open plains of the 242,500-acre Rio Grande del Norte National Monument average an elevation of 7,000 feet. The Bureau of Land Management describes it as being “dotted by volcanic cones and cut by steep canyons with rivers tucked away in their depths.” Ute Mountain is the highest of the volcanic cones, reaching to more than 10,000 feet. Mariana Trench Marine National Monument ( NOAA Office of Ocean Exploration and Research) Established Jan. 6, 2009: Created by President George W. Bush, the monument protects 95,216 square miles of submerged lands and waters in the Mariana Archipelago. The area includes unique reef habitats and biodiverse marine ecosystems. The Marianas Trench is the deepest spot on earth at 36,000 feet below the sea. Pacific Remote Islands (noaa.gov) Established Jan. 6, 2009, and enlarged Sept. 25, 2014: The Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument includes Wake, Baker, Howland and Jarvis islands; Johnston and Palmyra atolls; and Kingman Reef, which lie to the south and west of Hawaii. At 490,000 square miles, it’s the largest marine protected area in the world. For the record: An earlier version of this story incorrectly gave the size of the monument as 408,301 acres. Rose Atoll Marine National Monument ( NOAA) Established Jan. 6, 2009: This George W. Bush-designated monument, encompassing nearly 13,400 square miles in the South Pacific Ocean, includes Rose Atoll, a small Samoan island and the southernmost point of the U. S. The monument also includes Rose Atoll National Wildlife Refuge, established in 1973, with about 20 acres of land and 1,600 acres of lagoon. The waters surrounding the atoll are home to rare giant clams and reef sharks, as well as an abundance of striking rose-colored corals. The island is a nesting site for rare species of petrels, shearwaters and terns. Papahanaumokuakea (noaa.gov) Established June 15, 2006, and enlarged Aug. 26, 2016: At more than 583,000 square miles of the Pacific Ocean northwest of the Hawaiian islands, the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument is larger than all national parks combined. The coastal waters include abundant and rare wildlife. Getting there, however, is not easy. Upper Missouri River Breaks ( Associated Press) Established Jan. 17, 2001: The 377,000-acre Upper Missouri River Break National Monument has “six wilderness study areas, the Cow Creek Area of Critical Environmental Concern, segments of the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail and Nez Perce National Historic Trail, and the Ft. Benton National Historic Landmark,” according to the Bureau of Land Management. The monument stretches along 149 miles of the Upper Missouri River as well as Breaks country and sections of Arrow Creek, Antelope Creek and the Judith River. Sonoran Desert ( Getty Images) Established Jan. 17, 2001: The Sonoran Desert is known for the iconic saguaro cactus. The 487,000-acre monument includes extensive saguaro cactus forests. Distinct mountain ranges rise with the area: The Maricopa, Sand Tank and Table Top Mountain ranges rise within the monument, as do the Booth Hills and White Hills. Carrizo Plain ( Francine Orr / Los Angeles Times) Established Jan. 17, 2001: Carrizo Plain National Monument is known for its spectacular wildflower blooms. The 204,000-acre monument is about 170 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles. “ The plain is home to diverse communities of wildlife and plant species including several listed as threatened or endangered and is an area culturally important to Native Americans,” according to the Bureau of Land Management. It also includes Soda Lake, the “largest remaining natural alkali wetland in Southern California.” Vermilion Cliffs ( Spencer Weiner / Los Angeles Times) Established Nov. 9, 2000: The 293,000-acre monument northeast of the Grand Canyon in Arizona has some of the most spectacular trails and vistas in the world. It’s remote and unspoiled, and the monument has diverse landscapes that include the Paria Plateau, Vermilion Cliffs, Coyote Buttes and Paria Canyon. Ironwood Forest ( John Miller / For the Times) Established June 9, 2000: The name comes from one of the longest living trees in the Arizona desert. The Ironwood Forest National Monument, at about 129,000 acres, showcases the Sonoran Desert. In addition to ironwood trees, the area features mesquite, palo verde, creosote and saguaro. Hanford Reach ( David Foster / Associated Press) Established June 9, 2000: Located in Washington state, the 195,000-acre Hanford Reach National Monument was created mostly from the former security buffer surrounding the Hanford Nuclear Reservation. Visitors to the site can learn about the role the area played in the Manhattan Project. Canyons of the Ancients ( Ken Papaleo / Rocky Mountain News) Established June 9, 2000: Canyons of the Ancients National Monument in southwestern Colorado has historical and environmental significance. The area is known for its high density of archaeological sites. The presence of humans on this land dates back at least 10,000 years. Giant Sequoia ( Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times) Established April 15, 2000: The Giant Sequoia National Monument protects 34 groves of ancient sequoias. The giant sequoia, the world's largest species of tree, only grows naturally in a narrow 60-mile band along the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada in California. The monument spans 328,000 acres and is north and south of Sequoia National Park. Grand Canyon- Parashant ( Mark Boster / Los Angeles Times) Established Jan. 11, 2000: Along the north rim of the Grand Canyon, this monument of more than 1 million acres includes deep canyons, mountains and buttes. Grand Staircase- Escalante ( Education Images / UIG via Getty Images) Established Sept. 18, 1996: The 1.8-million-acre Grand Staircase- Escalante National Monument in southern Utah is distinguished by colorful cliffs, labyrinthine canyons and high desert plateaus. When it was designated a national monument by President Clinton, a coalition of local counties sued. Read more: Trump signs order to reconsider national monuments created by Obama, George W. Bush and Clinton » San Gabriel Mountains (not on White House list) ( Allen J. Schaben / Los Angeles Times) Established Oct. 10, 2014: The monument meets the criteria cited by Zinke but does not appear on the White House list of monuments being reconsidered. President Obama designated about 346,000 acres of existing federal lands as the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. It remained under U. S. Forest Service management. The area is within 90 minutes of 15 million people in the Los Angeles Basin. Critics have questioned how meaningful the designation was in changing chronic issues with management of the area. UPDATES: Updated April 27, 9:30 a.m.: The story was updated with information based on a list released by the White House. It now includes Rose Atoll, Northeast Canyons and Mariana Trench. Updated April 27, 8:30 a.m.: This story was updated to note that San Gabriel Mountains is not on the list of monuments under reconsideration released by the White House. Updated 11:45 p.m.: This story was updated with information about the Bears Ears National Monument in Utah. Updated 8:45 p.m: This story was updated throughout with information from previous Times reports. In addition, attribution for information originating with government sources was added. This story was originally published at 12:05 p.m. Copyright
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-pol-trump-nafta-20170427-story.html
White House says Trump won't pull out of NAFTA The move was a reversal of an earlier announcement that he was considering an executive order to withdraw from NAFTA. The move was a reversal of an earlier announcement that he was considering an executive order to withdraw from NAFTA. President Trump said he has told the leaders of Mexico and Canada that he will not pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement at this time, but could still withdraw if he concludes a renegotiated pact is not "a fair deal for all." Trump tweeted early Thursday that he has agreed to remain a partner in the much-discussed trade agreement in calls he received from Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The White House released a statement late Wednesday saying only that Trump had assured the two leaders in phone conversations that the U. S. would not withdraw from NAFTA at this time. In his tweet, Trump called America's relationships with the two hemispheric neighbors "very good" and said the prospects of a renegotiated deal are "very possible." But he also said that his consent to remaining in NAFTA for now is "subject to the fact that if we do not reach a fair deal for all, we will then terminate NAFTA." The White House statement said, " President Trump agreed not to terminate NAFTA at this time and the leaders agreed to proceed swiftly, according to their required internal procedures, to enable the renegotiation of the NAFTA deal to the benefit of all three countries." The statement came hours after administration officials said Trump was considering a draft executive order to have the U. S. withdraw from the deal — though administration officials cautioned it was just one of a number of options being discussed by the president and his staff. Some saw the threat as posturing by Trump to gain leverage over Mexico and Canada as he tries to negotiate changes to the deal. Trump railed against the decades-old trade deal during his campaign, describing it as a "disaster." Senior White House officials had spent recent days discussing steps that could be taken to start the process of renegotiating or withdrawing from NAFTA before the end of Trump's first 100 days in office, according to a person familiar with the president's thinking. But the person, along with an administration official, said a number of options remained on the table, and stressed discussions are ongoing about the best way to proceed. Both spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss internal deliberations. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer declined to comment on the order, which was first reported by Politico. " The president has made addressing the problems of NAFTA a priority throughout the campaign, and once the president makes a decision about how he wants to address that, we'll let you know," he said. The administration appeared divided Wednesday over how and when to proceed, as officials balanced a newfound cautiousness with the desire to rack up accomplishments before Trump's 100th day on the job. Some were gunning for Trump to sign a draft order this week, while others were weighing complications surrounding withdrawing from or renegotiating the deal without Congress fully on board. The debate played out in the media Wednesday as some outlets quoted officials insisting the signing was imminent, while other officials dismissed the reports as "just a rumor."" My practice is to comment on things we've actually done or are doing as opposed to commenting on rumors," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told reporters at an unrelated White House briefing Wednesday evening. Trump could withdraw from NAFTA — but he would have to give six months' notice. And it is unclear what would happen next. The law Congress passed to enact the trade pact might remain in place, forcing Trump to wrangle with lawmakers and raising questions about the president's authority to raise tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports. The moves came days after the administration announced it would slap hefty tariffs on softwood lumber being imported from Canada. Trump has also been railing against changes in Canadian milk product pricing that he says are hurting the American dairy industry. Trump told the Associated Press in an interview last week that he planned to either renegotiate or terminate NAFTA, which he and other critics blame for wiping out U. S. manufacturing jobs because it allowed companies to move factories to Mexico to take advantage of low-wage labor." I am very upset with NAFTA. I think NAFTA has been a catastrophic trade deal for the United States, trading agreement for the United States. It hurts us with Canada, and it hurts us with Mexico," he said. Another senior White House official declined to comment on "rumors" of specific actions. But that official said NAFTA has been a top priority for the president since Day One and said the administration has been working on it since taking office. That person also spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the administration's thinking. The Trump administration last month submitted a vague set of guidelines to Congress for renegotiating NAFTA, disappointing those who were expecting Trump to demand a major overhaul. The Mexican government confirmed the conversation late Wednesday. " The leaders agreed on the convenience of maintaining the North American Free Trade Agreement and working together with Canada to carry out a successful renegotiation for the benefit of all three countries," the statement read. Trudeau's office issued a brief statement saying "the two leaders continued their dialogue on Canada- U. S. trade relations, with the prime minister reinforcing the importance of stability and job growth in our trade relations."
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-tt-reward-wealthy-20170426-story.html
Ballooning tax cuts and a deepening debt. David Horsey / Los Angeles Times Top of the Ticket cartoon Top of the Ticket cartoon ( David Horsey / Los Angeles Times) The Trump administration announced a major tax reform plan on Wednesday, except it isn’t much of a reform (merely another massive tax cut for the very wealthy) and it isn’t much of a plan (just a one-page list of ideas that have yet to be developed into a legislative proposal). In other words, it is much like Donald Trump’s “plans” for healthcare, trade, a border wall and North Korea: lots of salesmanship with no actual product to sell. When it came to repealing and replacing Obamacare, Trump latched onto a half-baked House Republican bill that couldn’t even be brought up for a vote. On trade, he has backed away from his pledge to kill NAFTA. He has let the border wall be postponed, and it seems to shrink with each passing day. He had the entire United States Senate bused to the White House for a top secret briefing about North Korea, and even Republican senators came away from the session saying it was little more than a publicity stunt. That Trump, in his first 100 days, has done very little that he promised to do on the campaign trail is not necessarily a bad thing. A reworking of American healthcare should not happen until Trump can actually deliver what he promised — good care at lower cost for everyone — which is likely unobtainable without moving to a single-payer system like that enjoyed by citizens in Canada, Europe and Japan. NAFTA should not be jettisoned, it should be improved. Billions should not be wasted on a border wall when there are smarter, cheaper options for dealing with illegal immigration. And North Korea needs to be addressed by someone who doesn’t think blustering tough talk is the same as a real strategy. And it is not bad that the tax plan is, at this point, little more than a ploy to give the illusion of action. It is a rehash of the voodoo economics that have clouded Republican minds since Ronald Reagan. It is built on the theory that huge tax cuts for big corporations and billionaires will create so many jobs and so much economic activity that the dramatic drop in tax rates will magically produce a gush of revenue for the government, thereby avoiding an increase in the federal debt. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin made this discredited claim when he presented the skeleton of the “plan” on Wednesday. Not many fell for it, including Republican budget hawks who remember what happened when President George W. Bush dramatically cut taxes and failed to make the budget cuts needed to make up for the lost revenue: skyrocketing deficits and debt. Trump is no better witch doctor than Bush; the voodoo doesn’t work. The Trump administration’s proposed federal budget would make draconian cuts in many government programs and agencies, but all that money is not saved — it gets shifted to the military. Then Trump wants to throw in the escalating cost of the border wall and a major new infrastructure spending program. Top that with big tax cuts and, within a decade, another $7 trillion will be added to the federal debt. That level of government borrowing would be a drag on the economy that would stifle business and kill jobs, not encourage growth. Trump’s first 100 days accomplished little but changed a lot David Horsey The tradition of measuring a new presidency’s success in the first 100 days began after Franklin Delano Roosevelt set a high bar in 1933 with a string of big accomplishments at the beginning of his first term. That was an unusual moment in American history — a desperate electorate mired the depths... The tradition of measuring a new presidency’s success in the first 100 days began after Franklin Delano Roosevelt set a high bar in 1933 with a string of big accomplishments at the beginning of his first term. That was an unusual moment in American history — a desperate electorate mired the depths... ( David Horsey) Allowing business tycoons to pay a low 15% corporate tax rate instead of a significantly higher personal tax rate — one of the elements of the administration proposal — would be great for rich guys like Trump, but that is not exactly what the president’s loyal followers were hoping for when they decided to take a chance on a celebrity real estate mogul with zero experience in government. The plan’s elimination of the estate tax would help out the extremely tiny percentage of Americans whose net worth is greater than $11 million, but the other 99.8% of us might be better off if the government kept that tax money to pay for pure air, water and food or for medical research that will keep us alive a bit longer or for a State Department robust enough to keep our kids out of future wars. The sketchy tax plan is further proof that Trump’s expressions of empathy for the struggling working men and women of the country are the cheap words of a perpetual salesman. Still, we can be grateful that a man with so many bad ideas is mostly talk and no follow-through.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-paris-20170427-story.html
Republicans are rethinking their disdain for the Paris accord – creating a political headache for Trump LA 90: Trump's stance on the Paris climate agreement That's quickly becoming the position of Trump allies and Republican lawmakers about the Paris climate agreement. ( April 27, 2017)   That's quickly becoming the position of Trump allies and Republican lawmakers about the Paris climate agreement. ( April 27, 2017)   Supporters of Donald Trump worried he has lost his appetite for poking the establishment would probably be reassured if he were to make good on his promise to swiftly kick to the curb the Paris agreement on climate change. But the promise to snub Paris is fast becoming a political albatross for the president. As Trump meets with top advisors Thursday to weigh what purpose a U. S. withdrawal from the agreement would serve, he is under intensifying pressure from his allies to keep it intact. And it is not just coming from his climate-anxious daughter, Ivanka. The White House is getting an unexpected earful on the matter from a broad spectrum of voices on the right, including some prominent skeptics of global warming science. Republicans are increasingly adopting the point of view that there isn’t much upside to walking away from the Paris accord beyond the burst of satisfaction it would give core Trump voters. Politicos who were once among the most vocal opponents of the agreement are reconsidering, as they grow concerned about the prospect of the United States removing itself from one of the most influential forums for steering global energy policy — and one that doesn’t place particularly onerous obligations on the nation. Co-opt it, don’t crush it, is fast becoming a mantra among a broadening circle of advisors to the administration, much to the horror of the free market absolutists and anti-globalism activists who took the accord for as good as dead the day Trump was elected. The president plans to announce by the end of May what direction the administration will go. The fight against climate change in California gains an unlikely ally: Republicans Chris Megerian Stepping further into its role as the nation’s pioneer on climate issues, California might soon clear a hurdle that has long frustrated environmental advocates: Republicans say they’re joining the fight against global warming. Assembly Republican Leader Chad Mayes ( R- Yucca Valley) and some of his... Stepping further into its role as the nation’s pioneer on climate issues, California might soon clear a hurdle that has long frustrated environmental advocates: Republicans say they’re joining the fight against global warming. Assembly Republican Leader Chad Mayes ( R- Yucca Valley) and some of his... ( Chris Megerian) “ If the president asked me today whether we should stay in or get out, I am not sure what I would tell him,” said Rep. Kevin Cramer ( R- N. D.), an energy advisor to Trump during the campaign who previously urged him to reject the pact unequivocally and as recently as October declared the accord a grave economic threat to America. “ The more I speak to people, the more convinced I am that there is a lot of upside to staying in if we do this right.” All this is cold comfort to the many thousands of global warming activists who will be marching for climate action in Washington and elsewhere Saturday. The shifting view in the GOP on the Paris accord is not so much a sign that the right is embracing mainstream science on global warming and a need to take bold measures as it is that many in the oil, gas, coal and nuclear sectors are seeing more opportunity to preserve market share by staying in Paris than by bolting.“ We want to make sure we have a leg up and opportunity for American energy and technologies to compete in the world market and not get boxed out by others,” said Jeffrey Merrifield, a former commissioner at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission who now represents nuclear energy companies as an attorney. “ It’s a good reason for staying at the table to be part of that discussion.” The pact sets goals for reducing emissions, but it leaves lots of flexibility for how nations go about it. It does not require America to keep intact the Clean Power Plan, then- President Obama’s signature action for reducing emissions, which Trump has targeted for elimination. It does not, some energy lobbyists argue, even require enforcement of the landmark Clean Air Act, a key tool in American efforts to curb greenhouse gases. It does, however, set fairly aggressive targets over the long haul, and every action Trump has taken on climate has undermined America’s ability to meet them.“ Have a little faith,” said energy lobbyist Scott Segal, arguing at a freewheeling debate this week on Capitol Hill among conservatives convened by Cramer. They discussed whether modifying rather than abandoning Obama’s policies would give America more leverage to reopen negotiations and push other nations to take on more of the burden. “ I want to see what the Paris structure will look like if the team of negotiators is not dispatched by Barack Obama, but by Donald Trump.” Not all conservatives are warming to the idea. Several activists from the network of nonprofits that have been bankrolled by fossil fuel tycoons Charles and David Koch are urging Trump to not waver on his pledge to retreat.“ It was a promise,” Chris Horner of the Energy and Environment Legal Institute said of Trump’s vow to withdraw from the Paris accord. “ Should the president keep his promise? We argue he should. There is no political upside to the president breaking his promise.” Horner expressed alarm at all the “rationalizations” he is hearing from Republicans for backing away from that promise. “ We are hearing more every day,” he said. The debate will rage on in the White House on Thursday, where Trump’s Cabinet is also conflicted about what direction to take. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is loath to sacrifice the seat at the table the United States has by continuing to honor the agreement. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt calls the Paris accord a bad deal that America should walk away from. Trump strategist Stephen K. Bannon is expected to argue vociferously against remaining in the agreement, but the president’s mere contemplation of staying in is another sign of how much the influence of the former Breitbart executive has waned. But that hasn’t made the politics any less complicated for Trump. Bannon’s point of view remains strong among his base.“ This is a very sinister program,” Marlo Lewis, fellow at the Koch-backed Competitive Enterprise Institute, said of the Paris accord. “ What happens if the next president is a progressive, like Hillary Clinton would have been? As long as this Frankenstein monster is out there, with the right people at the top, it can revert right back to where Obama left it.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-100-days-pueblo-20170427-story.html
Voters in this Democratic part of Colorado backed Trump. After 100 days, they have no regrets - LA Times The steel mill in Pueblo has long been a fulcrum of life in the south Colorado community. Matthew Staver / For The Times The steel mill in Pueblo has long been a fulcrum of life in the south Colorado community. The steel mill in Pueblo has long been a fulcrum of life in the south Colorado community. ( Matthew Staver / For The Times) To read the polls and hear the pundits, President Trump’s first 100 days have been an utter disaster, ranking among the worst in history. But that’s not how Karen Malady sees it. The 59-year-old accountant was drawn to Trump’s unconventional candidacy from the start, unlike other Republicans who came around reluctantly. She saw him as an outsider and disrupter, and his first months in office proved her right, she said, about that and other things, too. Like no matter how much he tries, some won’t ever give Trump a fair shake.“ He’s trying to build a foundation to protect this country, and they just pick apart the little things,” Malady said, as fading daylight slanted into the headquarters of the Fraternal Order of Eagles, a nonprofit charity. “‘ This person was picked on, and, oh, by the way, this person is of that nationality, so that makes him a racist.’“ No,” she said with a small shake of her head, “they take that little they can and they dig with it.” The anger and aggrievement that fueled Trump’s unlikely election, the sense of abandonment by a self-interested political establishment and sneering condescension from the know-it-alls, hasn’t faded in the months since Trump took office. If anything, it has deepened here in Pueblo County, a longtime Democratic stronghold that Trump narrowly won in November. In nearly three dozen interviews with Trump voters — Democrats, independents and Republicans who had their doubts — not one said they regretted supporting him. They see a president besieged and beset not just by Democrats, a hostile media and haughty academics — all, they say, fashioned from the same cloth — but by his fellow Republicans in Congress, who seem more interested in clinging to office than helping bring about the change Trump promised. Despite the resistance, they say, he has delivered on his promise to fight for American jobs, browbeating corporate executives and toughening the country’s trade policies through executive orders. He sent a don’t-mess-with-us message to the world by bombing Syria and Afghanistan. He installed Neil M. Gorsuch on the Supreme Court, cementing a conservative majority for possibly decades to come. The result has been a backlash startling in its ferocity: left-leaning protesters taking to the streets, pundits foaming, lawmakers sputtering. Steve Carson, 61, cast his first-ever presidential ballot to vote for Donald Trump. Matthew Staver / For The Times Steve Carson, 61, cast his first-ever presidential ballot to vote for Donald Trump. Steve Carson, 61, cast his first-ever presidential ballot to vote for Donald Trump. ( Matthew Staver / For The Times) Trump is shaking things up, said Steve Carson, 61, a retired welder who approvingly assayed the president’s start from a stool at the Chug- A- Mug tavern in Pueblo’s worn Bessemer neighborhood.“ If we’re not going to follow what’s been in place forever, people’s lives are going to change,” said Carson, a self-described independent who cast his first-ever presidential ballot to vote for Trump. “ And a lot of them don’t want things to change.” In short, if all those people in Washington and places like Hollywood and New York are so riled up, Trump supporters suggest, that means he must be doing something right.:: Steel is what helped make Pueblo great and still forges much of its identity. The Colorado Fuel and Iron Co., or CF& I to locals, was built up by the Rockefeller family early in the 20th century. Its billowing smokestacks sustained generations of blue-collar families and delivered on their dreams. Passage into the middle class — a nice home, a car, a pickup, a boat — was possible for even a high-school dropout. A Russian conglomerate now owns the steel mill in Pueblo. Matthew Staver / For The Times A Russian conglomerate now owns the steel mill in Pueblo. A Russian conglomerate now owns the steel mill in Pueblo. ( Matthew Staver / For The Times) That abruptly changed with the recession and steel industry crash of the early 1980s. More than 5,000 workers were laid off in one day and unemployment topped 20%, as major employers including a meat-packing plant, dog food manufacturer and big piston maker shut down. Even though the community has long since rebounded — February’s unemployment rate was just 4.9% — today’s jobs generally aren’t as lucrative, and that helps explain Trump’s success.“ He spoke to the angst that exists in a lot of communities in America over the decline of the middle class,” said Pueblo County Commissioner Sal Pace, a Democrat and backer of Hillary Clinton, who won Colorado. Located in the high desert at the south end of the Front Range, Pueblo and its surrounding communities are home to about 165,000 people. Folks here are friendly — they’ll nod hello to a stranger — and the outdoorsy lifestyle is far less expensive than Denver, two hours away. A sleek riverwalk bustles at night, and there is talk of building a minor league baseball stadium and expanding the Professional Bull Riders headquarters, to create an even bigger tourist draw. Boosters speak hopefully of branding Pueblo and its vibrant creative community as a more affordable version of Taos, New Mexico’s famed artist colony. ( They are less inclined to tout the burgeoning legal-cannabis industry, even though tax revenues have allowed the county to offer a scholarship to every graduating high school senior.) But take away the temperate climate and distant view of the Rockies and Pueblo could easily fit into one of those Rust Belt states that delivered the White House to Trump. Just a few blocks from the riverwalk, downtown’s tree-lined Main Street is dotted with vacant storefronts and small businesses where retail giants — Kresge, Woolworths, Montgomery Ward — once thrived. On a recent weekday morning, the only sound was the squeak of a rusty bicycle chain, laboring under the weight of its oversized rider. The steel mill that was long the fulcrum of life here now employs between 700 and 800 workers, a mere fraction of the 12,000 at its peak. A community that prided itself on making big things — the spine of skyscrapers, railroads and bridges — and being a brawny part of America's once-mighty steel industry has had to downsize its self-image and pare its ambitions.“ We used to attract businesses that would bring 250, 300 jobs,” said Rod Slyhoff, 62, the longtime head of the Greater Pueblo Chamber of Commerce. “ Now it’s 30 or 40.” Trump broke through in this patch of Democratic Colorado. Here's what voters say about his first 100 days Mark Z. Barabak Trump's first 100 days -- goes with la-na-pol-trump-100-days-pueblo-20170427 Trump's first 100 days -- goes with la-na-pol-trump-100-days-pueblo-20170427 ( Mark Z. Barabak) Trump didn’t win here by much, just 390 votes out of nearly 79,000, but his victory marked the first time Republicans carried Pueblo County since President Nixon in 1972. Perhaps more important, Trump shook some voters of their old habits. Greg Smith was a Democratic activist and former precinct captain who supported Barack Obama in 2008. But over eight years he grew convinced that Democrats were more concerned with creating jobs for bureaucrats and passing along handouts than caring about people like him. He works 110 hours a week and still can’t afford health insurance, Smith said from behind the bar at his Greenlight Tavern, which has operated downtown since the Depression. A homeless person collapses, he said, and rescuers show up, “put him in a room, give him a sponge bath, medication, and who pays for that? Me.” Smith, 59, voted for Trump and is glad he did.“ I think he’s making a change,” Smith said, citing proposed cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and the promise of lower taxes and fewer regulations. “ The core of America is the entrepreneur, the small-business man. I think he has true concern for that.” Greg Smith, 59, behind the bar at his Greenlight Tavern in Pueblo. Matthew Staver / For The Times Greg Smith, 59, behind the bar at his Greenlight Tavern in Pueblo. Greg Smith, 59, behind the bar at his Greenlight Tavern in Pueblo. ( Matthew Staver / For The Times) Historians and other experts point to a singular lack of achievement in Trump’s first 100 days. Among their lengthy critique: He has not passed one major piece of legislation. He’s antagonized foreign allies. His proposed travel restrictions on Muslim-majority countries has stalled in court. Most spectacularly, his vow to repeal and replace President Obama’s signature healthcare law flopped in a Congress run by his own party. But Trump supporters measure his accomplishments in other ways. He’s boosted business confidence, surveys show, and the stock market has soared. “ Anyone with a 401(k) has to be delighted,” said Marla Reichert, 52, head of the Pueblo County GOP. He’s talked tough on terrorism and surrounded himself with military men who can turn those words into action. “ It’s time to show the world we’re tired of being pushed around,” said Carson at the Chug- A- Mug. He’s promoted a “buy American, hire American” policy, and just wait, Trump backers say. Maybe it’s unrealistic to bring 6,000 steel-making jobs back to Pueblo, says Reichert, whose father and grandfather both worked in the mill. “ But why not 4,000?” she asked. “ Why not 3,000?” Critics point to Trump’s frequent golf outings and taxpayer-funded trips to Florida, but that’s nothing more than sore-loser talk, the president’s defenders say. Obama golfed too, they note, and as for Trump’s costly travels, give him a break. “ If he’s doing his job,” said Republican Adam Huskin, 30, a roofing contractor in upscale Pueblo West, “ I don’t really care where he’s doing it from.” Some see a series of flip-flops: on NATO, on the Iranian disarmament deal, on support for the Federal Reserve chair, among many. Trump backers see something else entirely: the savvy of a deal-maker. Take China, for instance. Trump vowed to slap a fat tariff on the world’s most populous country but has since backed off, which strikes Tom Ready, a Pueblo West dentist, as perfectly sound.“ We’re not going to go to war with our biggest trading partner,” said Ready, 73, a Republican who showed up at the Eagle club in a skull T-shirt promoting his motorcycle club, the Uglies. “ He said, ‘ OK, let’s work it out.’ What’s wrong with that? I don’t call it changing policies. I call it a better way of doing things.”:: The business of evaluating Trump on his first 100 days strikes many as arbitrary and silly, a sentiment matching the president’s pique.“ What happened to the eight years Obama was in office?” demanded Republican Patti Kerkhoff. Trump was last on her list of 18 GOP candidates running in 2016, but he’s grown on her because he never seems to stop, with a tweet here and executive order there.“ Promise, promise, promise, and the only change under Obama was that things got worse,” said the 66-year-old retired schoolteacher, finishing breakfast with her church group at a small cafe near the mill. “ Trump has been in office for two months, and it’s like, ‘ What’s happening? How come it’s not changed already?’” In the front window a sign read “ Stop TPP Now,” a reference to the Trans- Pacific Partnership, a proposed trade deal between the U. S. and several Asian countries. During the campaign Trump portrayed the pact as the kind of one-sided bargain that has ravaged Pueblo’s home-grown manufacturers. He vowed to pull America out, and it’s a promise Trump has kept. But that can’t change what’s already taken place. Today, three of Pueblo’s biggest employers are foreign-owned: a Danish corporation that manufacturers and assembles wind turbines; a Mexican cement maker; and the old CF& I, which is now part of the Russian steelmaker Evraz. Paul Gornick outside Pueblo Central High School. Matthew Staver / For The Times Paul Gornick outside Pueblo Central High School. Paul Gornick outside Pueblo Central High School. ( Matthew Staver / For The Times) For those born or raised here the sense of loss is passed on, like some hereditary ailment. Paul Gornick is 18, nowhere near old enough to remember CF& I’s glory days. But at a Rotary Club meeting, the high school senior — beard trimmed, hair neatly combed — spoke of the hulking smokestacks, most now idled, that loom over the cityscape like blackened gravestones.“ Every time you pass by,” he said, “it’s a reminder of what used to be.” Gornick was too young to vote in November, but if he had, he said, he would have backed Trump.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-pol-sac-republican-climate-change-20170427-story.html
The fight against climate change in California gains an unlikely ally: Republicans Gaining bipartisan support for cap and trade could be a political coup for Gov. Jerry Brown.   Gaining bipartisan support for cap and trade could be a political coup for Gov. Jerry Brown.   Stepping further into its role as the nation’s pioneer on climate issues, California might soon clear a hurdle that has long frustrated environmental advocates: Republicans say they’re joining the fight against global warming. Assembly Republican Leader Chad Mayes ( R- Yucca Valley) and some of his colleagues are taking the unusual step of embracing the state’s complex regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, pledging to work with Democrats at the same time President Trump rolls back national environmental policies. “ Californians, whether you’re a Republican or a Democrat, are different from the rest of the country,” said Mayes, who represents parts of Riverside and San Bernardino counties. “ What they’re doing back in Washington, D. C., is not what we’re going to be doing in California.” Mayes and almost all of his colleagues voted against last year’s measure to set a new, tougher target for slashing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. But now that the goal has become law, he wants to work with Democrats on extending the cap-and-trade program, which requires companies to buy permits to release emissions into the atmosphere. “ It would be foolish not to engage,” said Mayes, who has huddled with a cadre of Assembly Republicans to start developing their own ideas about limiting the price of emission permits and using the program’s revenue for tax credits or rebates. Their stance aligns with that of industry groups such as oil companies and food processors that have already backed cap and trade as a more cost-effective alternative to stricter rules for cutting emissions. Lawmakers are debating the program’s future because there are legal questions over whether cap and trade can continue operating after 2020, and the Republicans’ effort to get involved could reshape this year’s conversations over policies that are usually crafted by Democrats debating among themselves. The law that launched cap and trade was signed in 2006 by Republican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, an outspoken champion of fighting global warming, but he’s been a high-profile exception to the deep partisan divide on the issue. Gaining bipartisan support for cap and trade, California’s most high-profile climate initiative, could be a political coup for Gov. Jerry Brown at a time when Trump is threatening an international agreement on global warming. It could also offer new paths toward a two-thirds vote to extend the program, a higher level needed to protect it from legal challenges. Democrats hold enough seats to reach that threshold on their own, but just barely, a challenge that became clear during a nail-biter of a vote to raise taxes to fund road repairs. However, finding middle ground could be difficult. Republicans, who are a small minority in the Legislature, haven’t written legislation of their own and they’re asking for compromises that Brown and his fellow Democrats may be unwilling to concede. Perhaps most notably, Mayes opposes a Democratic proposal to modify the cap-and-trade program so it addresses both greenhouse gases and pollutants that cause public health problems such as asthma. Although both goals are important, he said, “we should be addressing those in different ways.” But Democrats are increasingly aligned with environmental justice advocates who want to merge climate policies with stricter regulations to address pollution concerns in disadvantaged communities. “ Without clean air being part of the discussion, there are no 54 votes to be had” to reach the two-thirds threshold, said Assemblywoman Cristina Garcia ( D- Bell Gardens), a chief architect of this year’s climate legislation. “ There are too many Democrats that won’t come to the table.” California Democrats, including then- Sen. Fran Pavley, Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, Assemblyman Rich Pedroncelli / Associated Press California Democrats, including then- Sen. Fran Pavley, Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, Assemblyman Eduardo Garcia, Gov. Jerry Brown and Senate leader Kevin de León, speak at a news conference last year after approving new climate policies. California Democrats, including then- Sen. Fran Pavley, Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, Assemblyman Eduardo Garcia, Gov. Jerry Brown and Senate leader Kevin de León, speak at a news conference last year after approving new climate policies. ( Rich Pedroncelli / Associated Press) More disputes could involve how cap-and-trade revenue is used. Republicans want to spend it on rebates or tax credits to offset higher prices that could be generated by climate regulations, sapping funding Democrats have used for projects intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Some of the money has also been dedicated to building the bullet train from Los Angeles to San Francisco, a priority for the governor and a frequent source of Republican criticism for its delays and high price. Despite the hurdles to a bipartisan deal, Mayes and some of his colleagues see an opportunity for Republicans to get involved with an issue important to California voters. Four out of five believe climate change is a serious threat to the state, according to a poll conducted last summer by the Public Policy Institute of California. “ You look on what’s going on in the Antarctic, in the North Pole, you look at the issue of sea-level rise. It’s an issue that we need to be concerned about,” said Assemblyman Rocky Chávez ( R- Oceanside), who’s working with Mayes. “ We want to be part of the solution.” They’ll face a political balancing act, and goodwill for cap and trade remains divided along partisan lines. The PPIC poll said 62% of Democrats support the program, compared with 33% of Republicans. Brown publicly doubted Republicans would back cap and trade during a hearing on gas taxes earlier this month. When Assemblyman Vince Fong ( R- Bakersfield) expressed concerns that extending the program would also increase gas prices, Brown shot back, “ You’re not going to vote for cap and trade anyway.” The governor continued, “ Look, cap and trade is about climate change, which you don’t believe in and your president says is a hoax.” Mayes said that doesn't apply to him, acknowledging the reality of climate change and humanity’s contributions to the problem. He conceded that not everyone in his caucus is on board with his efforts to reach a deal on cap and trade, but believes it’s an opportunity for Republicans to be influential despite their small numbers. “ When you’re at 25 [seats in the 80-seat Assembly], what have you got to lose?” he said.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-pol-trump-nafta-20170426-story.html
President Donald Trump signs the Education Federalism Executive Order during a federalism event with Andrew Harnik / Associated Press President Trump signs an executive order in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Wednesday. Hours after officials said he was considering an order to leave NAFTA, he told Mexico and Canada the U. S. will stay put. President Trump signs an executive order in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Wednesday. Hours after officials said he was considering an order to leave NAFTA, he told Mexico and Canada the U. S. will stay put. ( Andrew Harnik / Associated Press) President Trump on Wednesday told the leaders of Mexico and Canada that he will not pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, just hours after administration officials said he was considering a draft executive order to do just that. The White House made the surprise announcement in a read-out of calls involving Trump, Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. " President Trump agreed not to terminate NAFTA at this time and the leaders agreed to proceed swiftly, according to their required internal procedures, to enable the renegotiation of the NAFTA deal to the benefit of all three countries," the White House said. Trump said he believes "the end result will make all three countries stronger and better." The Mexican government confirmed the conversation in a statement issued late Wednesday." The leaders agreed on the convenience of maintaining the North American Free Trade Agreement and working together with Canada to carry out a successful renegotiation for the benefit of all three countries," the statement read. The White House announcement came after administration officials said earlier in the day that Trump was considering a draft executive order to withdraw the U. S. from the deal, though they cautioned it was just one of a number of options being discussed by the president and his staff. Some saw the threat as posturing by Trump to gain leverage over Mexico and Canada as he tries to negotiate changes to the deal. Trump railed against the decades-old trade deal during his campaign, describing it as a "disaster." Senior White House officials had spent recent days discussing steps that could be taken to start the process of renegotiating or withdrawing from NAFTA before the end of Trump's first 100 days in office, according to a person familiar with the president's thinking. But that source, along with an administration official, who both spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss internal deliberations, had said that a number of options remained on the table and stressed that discussions were ongoing about the best way to proceed. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer declined to comment on the order, which was first reported by Politico." The president has made addressing the problems of NAFTA a priority throughout the campaign, and once the president makes a decision about how he wants to address that, we'll let you know," he said. The administration appeared to be divided Wednesday over how and when to proceed, as officials balanced a newfound cautiousness with the desire to rack up accomplishments before Trump's 100th day on the job Saturday. Some were gunning for Trump to sign a draft order this week, while others were weighing the complications surrounding withdrawing from or renegotiating the deal without Congress fully on board. The debate played out in the media Wednesday as some outlets quoted officials insisting the signing was imminent, while other officials dismissed the reports as "just a rumor."" My practice is to comment on things we've actually done or are doing as opposed to commenting on rumors," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told reporters at an unrelated White House briefing Wednesday evening. Trump has the authority to withdraw from NAFTA, but he would have to give six months' notice. And it is unclear what would happen next. The law Congress passed to enact the trade pact might remain in place, forcing Trump to wrangle with lawmakers and raising questions about the president's authority to raise tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports. The decision came days after the administration announced it would slap hefty tariffs on softwood lumber being imported from Canada. Trump has also been railing against changes in Canadian milk product pricing that he says are hurting the American dairy industry. Trump told the Associated Press in an interview last week that he planned to either renegotiate or terminate NAFTA, which he and other critics blame for wiping out U. S. manufacturing jobs because it allowed companies to move factories to Mexico to take advantage of low-wage labor." I am very upset with NAFTA. I think NAFTA has been a catastrophic trade deal for the United States, trading agreement for the United States. It hurts us with Canada, and it hurts us with Mexico," he said. Another senior White House official declined to comment on "rumors" of specific actions. But that official said that NAFTA has been a top priority for the president and that the administration has been working on it since he took office. That person also spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the administration's thinking. The Trump administration last month submitted a vague set of guidelines to Congress for renegotiating NAFTA, disappointing those who were expecting Trump to demand a major overhaul. In an eight-page draft letter to Congress, acting U. S. Trade Representative Stephen Vaughn wrote that the administration intended to start talking with Mexico and Canada about making changes to the pact, which took effect in 1994. The letter spelled out few details and stuck with broad principles. But it appeared to keep much of the existing agreement in place, including private tribunals that allow companies to challenge national laws on the grounds that they inhibit trade — a provision that critics say allows companies to get around environmental and labor laws. Reports Wednesday of the possible move to abandon NAFTA drew objections from some in Congress, including Sen. John Mc Cain of Arizona.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-tax-20170426-story.html
LA 90: Trump's first 100 days Trump's first 100 days in office are almost up. ( April 26, 2017)   Trump's first 100 days in office are almost up. ( April 26, 2017)   Racing to convey a sense of momentum to President Trump’s sluggish legislative agenda, the White House unveiled a plan for what it called “one of the biggest tax cuts in American history” Wednesday, just ahead of the administration’s symbolic first 100 days in office. The one-page outline, touted as an overhaul of the tax code, bears the hallmark of other early Trump proposals: a broad-brush overview of bold goals that is intended to serve as an opening bid with Congress rather than a fully baked policy proposal. The plan was immediately met with skepticism from budget groups and faces a daunting future on Capitol Hill. Lawmakers from both parties are wary that the White House hasn’t said how it would pay for the cuts, which likely would provide the greatest benefits to higher-income earners and corporations. At its center is a large reduction in corporate tax rates, to 15% — from multinational corporations to mom-and-pop shops. The current U. S. corporate tax rate is 35%, the highest among developed economies, but many companies pay a lower rate by using deductions in the tax code. The plan also reduces the number of personal income tax brackets from seven to three, with rates of 10%, 25% and a top rate of 35%. The outline released by the White House lacks many basic details, including income requirements pegged to new tax brackets, any explanation of a new tax break for childcare expenses, or any analysis of how much it would increase the national debt. Among the deductions it would eliminate would be one for the payment of state and local taxes. That would be a big hit to Californians and residents of other states with high taxes and high earners. The proposal also would eliminate the inheritance tax on multi-million-dollar estates and cut a 3.8% tax on investment income imposed as part of Obamacare. It would eliminate the alternative minimum tax, a backstop intended to prevent the highest earners from using deductions and other strategies to avoid paying substantial taxes. The alternative minimum tax increasingly forces upper-middle-class earners to pay more taxes because it doesn't adjust for inflation. It also would impose an undefined one-time tax on corporate profits held overseas in an attempt to bring the money back to U. S. operations. In an attempt to simplify, the plan would eliminate most deductions used by higher earners, but would preserve those for charitable giving and home loans, among the costliest and most popular. It would also double the standard deduction, which currently is $12,700 for a married couple filing jointly.“ This tax reform package is about growing the economy, creating jobs,” said Gary Cohn, director of Trump’s National Economic Council, who presented the plan at the White House briefing with Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin. The plan is sure to meet resistance and refinement on Capitol Hill, among Democrats who oppose heavy tax breaks for high earners and corporate interests, Republicans who worry about the deficit, and lobbying interests concerned with the potential loss of favored deductions. Democrats and some outside groups also complained that the proposal would chiefly benefit wealthy Americans like Trump personally, rather than middle-class wage earners. In response to a question, Mnuchin said Trump had no intention of releasing his tax returns, further slamming the door on a dispute that has persisted since the campaign, when the billionaire businessman became the first major presidential candidate since the 1970s to refuse to let voters see how much he pays in taxes and details about his business deals and investments. But Trump and his advisors cast it as a historic and long-overdue opportunity to rewrite tax laws that have grown increasingly complicated since the last major rewrite in 1986 under President Reagan.“ This isn't going to be easy. Doing big things never is,” Cohn said. “ We will be attacked from the left and we'll be attacked from the right, but one thing is certain: I would never, ever bet against this president. He will get this done for the American people.” If the plan does not pay for itself, it would need support from at least some Democrats under current Senate rules. Some were quick to denounce it on Wednesday. Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, called the proposal “an unprincipled tax plan that will result in cuts for the 1%, conflicts for the president, crippling debt for America and crumbs for the working people.” Republican leaders in the House have worked for years on their own plans, which now include a smaller tax break for companies – a drop to 20% for corporations and a maximum of 25% for pass-through companies. Their plan also depends on a border adjustment tax to bring in $1 trillion in revenue over the next 10 years to help recover the cost of the lower rates. That tax would subject importers, including retailers, to higher taxes and produce breaks for companies that export. The proposal has split the business community. Mnuchin said the administration likes some aspects of the border tax but is not backing it now.“ We will be working very closely… with the House and the Senate to turn this into a bill that can be passed and the president can sign,” he said of the administration proposal. “ And there's lots and lots of details that will go into how that will pay for itself.” Republican leaders on Capitol Hill issued a joint statement Wednesday that fell short of an endorsement but said Trump’s outline will “serve as critical guideposts for Congress.” Trump’s advisors argued that the plan will pay for itself through economic growth. But most economists dispute that analysis, which could put Trump at odds with long-held Republican promises to trim the deficit. The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimated that Trump's campaign tax plan, which includes eliminating the alternative minimum tax and other changes along with the tax cut to corporations proposed Wednesday, would reduce federal revenue by $7.2 trillion over the first decade. Marc Short, Trump’s director of legislative affairs, was deliberately vague on that point during a meeting with reporters this week, saying the administration did not intend to order an analysis of the plan’s deficit impact at this stage. He called paying for the tax cuts without borrowing money “the goal,” but said the administration would weigh in later on whether it would support a plan that does not meet that goal. Instead, the administration is arguing the overall benefits to the economy, which it says will be spurred by corporations eager to reinvest in American jobs. Republicans plan to use controversial dynamic scoring, which assumes the effects of economic growth, to determine the tax plan's effect on the budget. While cutting the corporate rate is straightforward, assuring that other businesses that file individual tax returns pay a 15% rate is much more complicated. Those companies are known as pass-through businesses because their income passes through the individual tax code. Many are small, owner-operated firms. But pass-throughs also can be large partnerships, such as hedge funds, law firms and some of Trump's own businesses. Mnuchin said the tax plan would be structured so the 15% rate "won’t be a loophole for rich people who should be paying higher rates." He provided no details. Democrats and many budget analysts are skeptical that Trump can slash business taxes without causing budget deficits to soar." We definitely need tax reform as a way to grow the economy," said Maya Mac Guineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. But she said higher economic growth won't offset the plan's lost revenue and it needs to be paid for by reducing tax breaks or other measures." What I don’t want to see is that this tax reform is going to be paid for by magic," she said. Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Urban- Brookings Tax Policy Center, predicted that wealthy and sophisticated taxpayers would exploit the drop on the corporate tax rate to pay less in taxes on their income.“ The middle and working class cannot,” he said. “ This piece of their plan will exacerbate inequality—and increase complexity.” But some conservative groups applauded. Americans for Prosperity called it “a giant leap forward.” Trump’s interest in announcing the plan this week appeared to catch some of his advisors and allies on Capitol Hill off guard. The president has dismissed the 100-day measuring stick, a tradition for presidents since the 1930s, as irrelevant. But he also has pushed his aides to make a vigorous case for his accomplishments ahead of Saturday’s 100th day in office. A major legislative achievement has been a big gap on his early resume, hampered by the failure to craft a viable replacement plan for President Obama’s signature healthcare bill. Putting forth a partial tax plan at this stage carries risks. Trump has made other bold pushes only to retreat, which could hurt his negotiating position on Capitol Hill. He gave lawmakers an ultimatum during the House healthcare debate, demanding an up-or-down vote, only to pull back at the last minute to preserve negotiations for later. The bill was pulled before a vote to avoid a loss on the floor. This week, he backed down from a showdown with Congress over funding his signature promise to build a border wall in a supplemental budget request, choosing to fight for money later rather than risk a partial government shutdown on Friday. Staff writer Lisa Mascaro contributed to this article.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-congress-shutdown-talks-20170426-story.html
White House will continue Obamacare payments, defusing a potential obstacle in talks to avert shutdown House Speaker Paul Ryan Speaks To Media After House GOP Conference Meeting Win Mc Namee/ Getty Images House Speaker Paul D. Ryan with other Republican leaders. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan with other Republican leaders. ( Win Mc Namee/ Getty Images) One potential obstacle in the negotiations to prevent a government shutdown was averted Wednesday when the White House announced it would continue — at least for now — to provide critical funding for the Affordable Care Act. President Trump had once threatened to withhold money that helps many low-income Americans cover their deductibles and copayments, potentially cutting off the so-called cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers for as many as 7 million people who depend on the federal aid. The funding, totaling about $7 billion this year, soon became a bargaining chip in the current talks over a must-pass spending bill to prevent a government shutdown before a midnight Friday deadline. Democrats seized on Trump's threat to end the payments as a way to negotiate with Republicans who wanted extra funding for military programs or the border wall with Mexico. On Wednesday, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) announced the money would not be included in the spending bill. Later the White House signaled it would continue to provide the payments administratively rather than through Congress. It was the second time this week that the administration backed off its demands. Trump also gave up on his pursuit of including funding for his promised border wall in the spending bill.“ We’ve now made progress on both of these fronts,” said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco). Though the Affordable Care Act payments have been removed from the debate, several other issues remain, including abortion restrictions and money to prop up a pension fund for coal miners. Congress will probably need to pass a stopgap measure Friday to fund the government for another week while talks continue. Obamacare, meanwhile, continues to come under attack by Republicans seeking to revive their faltering effort to repeal and replace the healthcare law. That process gained momentum Wednesday when the conservative House Freedom Caucus — which helped sink the previous GOP plan — threw its backing behind a new amendment designed to win their votes. The measure would allow states to get rid of some of Obamacare’s most popular mandates, including the ban on higher insurance costs for those with preexisting medical conditions. It could be tacked onto the original bill, the American Health Care Act, which has already been projected to result in 24 million fewer Americans with health coverage over the next decade, according to an independent analysis by the Congressional Budget Office. Under the amendment, states could apply for waivers, for example, to once again allow insurers to charge sick consumers more than healthy ones and could lift requirements that all health plans cover a basic set of benefits, such as mental health and maternity care. The proposal was the result of extensive negotiations between the chairman of the caucus, Rep. Mark Meadows ( R- N. C.), and Rep. Tom Mac Arthur of New Jersey, representing Republican moderates. Those two factions of the House majority, for different reasons, opposed the GOP’s previous effort to dismantle the Affordable Care Act.“ While the revised version still does not fully repeal Obamacare, we are prepared to support it to keep our promise to the American people to lower healthcare costs,” the Freedom Caucus members said in a statement. While supporters say the new approach would lower insurance premiums, it has drawn intense criticism from many healthcare and patient advocacy groups, which are concerned that it would eviscerate key protections put in place by Obamacare. Even with the changes, there is still no guarantee the Republicans will find enough votes to pass the bill. Many centrist Republican lawmakers remain deeply concerned that it threatens health coverage for millions of vulnerable Americans.“ We have to help those people who were harmed by the Affordable Care Act without harming the people who were helped by it,” said Rep. Daniel Donovan ( R- N. Y.), who panned the previous effort and said lawmakers still had questions after Mac Arthur made a presentation during a morning meeting of House Republicans.“ Did everyone get up and cheer? No. Did everyone go, ‘ Oh, boo, hiss’? No,” he said. The spending package would fund government operations through the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year, Sept. 30, and aims to beef up defense spending by about $15 billion. While Trump may succeed in boosting defense accounts, some of his other priorities have fallen flat. Trump wanted $3 billion for border security — including at least $1 billion for the border wall that he has insisted Mexico will one day reimburse. But lawmakers sharply rejected the wall funds, and are now haggling over how much to spend on detentions and other border security measures. Meanwhile, retired coal miners are looking to Trump to salvage a pension fund that will probably be forced to cut off benefits if the government does not intervene. The White House has said it wants to help the miners, but lawmakers are divided over how long to provide the assistance for the health and pension fund. Senators from both parties want to extend it for the long-term, but House Republicans are balking at the price tag. Lawmakers also have concerns about dipping into an abandoned mine reclamation fund to help pay for it. Aides said talks are likely to continue into next week.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-health-reform-california-20170503-story.html
California shows why the Republican plan to rely on states to replace Obamacare may not work - LA Times GOP shuts out doctors, experts and Democrats as they work on Obamacare repeal On April 26, a coalition of six leading physician groups urged congressional leaders to collaborate with doctors. ( April 27, 2017) Richard Figueroa still shudders at the memory of the calls he fielded as enrollment director of California’s special health plan for sick patients who’d been rejected by insurers. Desperate callers pleaded to get off the waiting list as cancer or other illnesses worsened. Enrollees struggled to understand why the plan would not cover all the treatment they needed. Most heart-wrenching were the quiet, polite calls from those who’d received a letter that a sick relative could finally get on the plan. “ They would say, ‘ Thank you, but you can give our slot to someone else, because my brother or my wife or my daughter has died,’” Figueroa recalled. California’s high-risk pool — like similar overstretched state plans around the country —became obsolete when the Affordable Care Act established a new federal system to guarantee coverage to Americans even if they’re sick. Now President Trump and congressional Republicans are trying to shift responsibility for overseeing health protections back to states. This approach, including re-creating state high-risk pools, is a cornerstone of the GOP healthcare bill that Republicans are laboring to get through the House this week. GOP House leaders announced late Wednesday that they plan to hold a vote Thursday. House Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy predicted they have enough votes for passage, despite earlier struggles to win over moderates and conservatives. But California’s experience underscores the limitations of what states can do on their own. The nation’s most-populous state tried repeatedly over the years to plug the many holes in its healthcare system. Yet even with a huge economy, extensive medical system and committed advocates, including in powerful industries, California came up short, again and again. “ We did all these things as stop-gaps,” said Figueroa, who now works at the California Endowment, one of the state’s largest foundations. “ None of it was enough.” When President Obama signed the federal health law in 2010, nearly 20% of Californians — about 6 million people — lacked health coverage. Today, by contrast, the state’s uninsured rate is below 9%, as California has used the federal funding and insurance rules enacted through the Affordable Care Act to extend health protections to hundreds of thousands of previously uncovered Californians.“ Once we had that framework and the federal funding, we were off to the races,” said Anthony Wright, the longtime head of Health Access California, one of the state’s leading consumer advocates. “ But without it, it was very, very hard. … We have the experience to show that if health reform was easy at the state level, California would have done it. We couldn’t.” The state’s healthcare struggles are hardly unique. In the decades before Obamacare, some states — including Arizona, Washington, Kentucky, Maine, Minnesota and New York — tried to expand health protections for their residents by bolstering safety net health programs or rewriting insurance rules to ensure sick customers could get coverage. But most states — including many with the highest uninsured rates, such as Texas, Florida and Georgia — never undertook serious efforts to guarantee coverage. And although there were some modest successes, mostly in expanding Medicaid coverage, nearly every state effort to guarantee coverage failed until Obamacare made such protections possible nationwide. In fact, in the last two decades, only Massachusetts successfully crafted a healthcare overhaul that provided all of its residents with insurance protections. That 2006 initiative — which was heavily subsidized by the last Bush administration — became the model for Obamacare. We have the experience to show that if health reform was easy at the state level, California would have done it. We couldn’t. — Anthony Wright, head of Health Access California California elected officials labored for years to build their own system of health protections. The state long had among the highest uninsured rates, despite being a hub of healthcare innovation whose leading medical centers have been international destinations. Medi- Cal, the state’s Medicaid safety net, was perpetually overburdened as it struggled to care for millions of poor Californians. And insurance companies worked aggressively to exclude sick, costly customers, in many cases rescinding policies after customers got ill by alleging they misrepresented their medical histories.“ The market was a disaster,” said Tom Epstein, a former senior executive at Blue Shield of California, one of the state’s leading insurers. Among other things, California tried to require large employers to provide health coverage to their workers, though that effort was defeated in a statewide referendum just months after it was enacted. The state adopted insurance rules to give consumers more power to challenge decisions by health plans, though state leaders were never able to make insurers cover all sick patients. In 1991, the state set up the Major Risk Medical Insurance Program, commonly called “ Mr. Mip,” a high-risk insurance pool to offer a lifeline to patients who’d been turned down for coverage on the commercial insurance market. By the late ’90s, the plan, which was funded in part by premiums and in part by a voter-approved tobacco tax, was serving 22,000 people. But as premiums soared because insuring sick patients was so expensive, the program became increasingly difficult to sustain. Enrollment was capped, as were benefits. The plan would only cover $75,000 of enrollees’ medical costs per year. By 2010, when Obamacare was signed, the cost for a 50-year-old consumer in the Sacramento area who wanted a PPO plan had soared to $878 a month.“ It was a nice little program for a few thousand people,” said Lucien Wulsin, former head of the Insure the Uninsured Project, a state advocacy group. “ But we never got close to reaching the hundreds of thousands of Californians who needed help.” Finally in 2007, then- Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, launched a sweeping campaign to push through a major healthcare overhaul to extend coverage to millions of uninsured Californians. The landmark effort, in which Schwarzenegger partnered with Democrats in the state Assembly, picked up critical support from hospitals, patient groups and even some insurers and leading businesses. But the effort ultimately collapsed amid opposition from advocacy groups on the left and right, and questions about how the state could pay for extending health coverage.“ Engaging in comprehensive reform is not for the faint of heart,” said Kim Belshe, who served as health secretary under Schwarzenegger. “ You are talking about nearly 20% of the state’s economy. You are talking about issues that affect people in the most personal way. And you are dealing with the pocketbooks of a diverse array of healthcare providers, each of which have their own interests.” Belshe and others credit that effort for helping setting the stage for the state’s aggressive implementation of the Affordable Care Act, which Schwarzenegger and other state leaders enthusiastically embraced. California has undertaken a massive expansion of its Medicaid program and runs an insurance marketplace — Covered California — that is widely seen as a national model. The state has recorded among the largest drops in its uninsured population, and though costs remain a challenge, most California consumers can still shop among many health plans that are required by the state to offer lower out-of-pocket costs for some medical care than the federal standard. Doctors, hospitals, insurers, patient advocates and elected officials now worry that progress in California will be reversed if the federal law is rolled back and the state is once again left on its own. Said Figueroa: “ It’s so odd to think that we would even consider going back to the bad old days.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-house-spending-bill-20170503-story.html
House approves $1-trillion bipartisan spending bill as GOP prepares for Thursday vote on Obamacare repeal Nancy Pelosi and Charles E. Schumer Manuel Balce Ceneta / Associated Press House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer ( D- N. Y.) on Capitol Hill. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer ( D- N. Y.) on Capitol Hill. ( Manuel Balce Ceneta / Associated Press) Congress pushed forward a sweeping spending bill Wednesday, a rare bipartisan accord to keep the government running for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year. But Republicans had a tougher time trying to salvage their Obamacare overhaul with a last-minute fix to gain support for a vote that leaders now plan to hold Thursday. President Trump initially criticized the $1-trillion spending package for failing to include his administration’s priorities, but the House easily approved the funding measure, 309 to 118. The Senate was expected to swiftly follow, ahead of a Friday deadline when a current stopgap funding bill expires. The package boosts defense spending by $12.5 billion, half of what the president wanted. It provides extra money for medical research, disaster relief and the effort to salvage a coal miners pension fund that was a top priority of both Democrats and Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell ( R- Ky.). Congress declined to provide money to build Trump’s promised wall on the border with Mexico after lawmakers from both parties bristled at the expenditure, especially because Trump had insisted on the campaign trail that Mexico would pay for it. Instead, Congress settled on $1.5 billion in surveillance and other security measures, still the largest expenditure on the southwestern border in years. California shows why the Republican plan to rely on states to replace Obamacare may not work Noam N. Levey Richard Figueroa still shudders at the memory of the calls he fielded as enrollment director of California’s special health plan for sick patients who’d been rejected by insurers. Desperate callers pleaded to get off the waiting list as cancer or other illnesses worsened. Enrollees struggled to... Richard Figueroa still shudders at the memory of the calls he fielded as enrollment director of California’s special health plan for sick patients who’d been rejected by insurers. Desperate callers pleaded to get off the waiting list as cancer or other illnesses worsened. Enrollees struggled to... ( Noam N. Levey) Trump’s initial criticism of the hard-fought compromise put him at odds with Republican leadership in Congress, who welcomed the deal as an important accomplishment that eases fears of a government shutdown until the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.“ When you look at the bill, there's a lot of good conservative wins here,” said House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.). On Wednesday, the White House said Trump now agrees that the bill is a good deal for Americans. Democrats used their leverage, providing votes necessary to overcome a split among Republican lawmakers and pass the measure. On the healthcare bill, the White House was working anxiously to close a deal ahead of a Thursday vote that Majority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy announced following a Wednesday evening leadership meeting at the Capitol. Mc Carthy said Republican leaders now have enough votes for passage. Trump has been calling lawmakers who were wavering, and threw his support to a new amendment that aims to win back centrist Republicans worried that patients with preexisting conditions will lose coverage under the GOP bill, the American Health Care Act. Reps. Fred Upton ( R- Mich.) and Billy Long ( R- Mo.), who had voiced opposition to the bill, reversed course and said they would support the measure after convincing Trump to back their plan for an additional $8 billion to help pay for coverage in state high-risk pools for uninsurable consumers. Their support appeared to be bringing a trickle of other centrists on board. " With this addition that we brought to the president, sold him on, an hourlong meeting, we're both 'yeses' on the bill," Long told reporters afterward at the White House. Still, in the face of opposition from Democrats, Ryan can lose no more than about 22 votes, and the bill has been teetering on collapse amid pressure to vote before lawmakers break Thursday for weeklong recess. Leaders appeared to be picking up support one lawmaker at a time as they tried to reach the 216 needed for passage. For example, after leaders won support from conservative holdout Rep. Paul Gosar ( R- Ariz.) by promising him a future vote on a proposal to undo the so-called Mc Carran- Ferguson law, a longstanding ban on selling insurance across state lines. That also flipped Rep. Steve King ( R- Iowa) to the “lean yes” column.“ It’s a big deal,” said King. The latest proposal to add $8 billion over five years to help states’ high-risk plans seeks to address a consistent criticism that these plans were historically underfunded and could never meet the demand for coverage from sick people who could not get commercial insurance on their own. But it was quickly dismissed as inadequate by many healthcare experts and advocates for patients.“ This is like building a bridge less than one-quarter of the way across a river,” former Families USA director and longtime patient advocate Ron Pollack noted in a tweet. “ Anyone driving a car to the other side will still drown!” Republicans who already oppose their party's healthcare overhaul as insufficient in repealing and replacing Obamacare said leaders were desperate to pass the bill and move on." The AHCA is like a kidney stone — the House doesn't care what happens to it, as long as they can pass it," tweeted Rep. Thomas Massie ( R- Ky.), who is opposed to the measure.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-comey-senate-20170502-story.html
FBI chief Comey says he has no regrets about his preelection letter on Hillary Clinton's emails - LA Times James Comey Michael Reynolds / European Pressphoto Agency FBI Director James B. Comey, shown in July at a House Oversight Committee hearing, testified Wednesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee about the Clinton email case and a variety of other subjects. FBI Director James B. Comey, shown in July at a House Oversight Committee hearing, testified Wednesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee about the Clinton email case and a variety of other subjects. ( Michael Reynolds / European Pressphoto Agency) FBI Director James B. Comey said Wednesday he has suffered anguish but does not regret his decision to inform Congress in late October that the bureau would reopen into whether Hillary Clinton had mishandled classified emails, a disclosure that roiled the presidential race in its final days. In his most detailed public comments on the explosive episode, the FBI director told the Senate Judiciary Committee that his decision to disclose the preliminary investigation into newly discovered Clinton emails 11 days before the election was "one of the world's most painful experiences," but that he would do it again. " It makes me mildly nauseous to think that we might have had some impact on the election, but honestly, it wouldn't change the decision," Comey said.“ I’ve gotten all kinds of rocks thrown at me, and this has been really hard, but I think I’ve done the right thing at every turn,” he added. Comey testified a day after the unsuccessful Democratic presidential nominee said that she believed Comey’s unusual letter to Congress on Oct. 28 had essentially tilted the close race to her rival, Donald Trump." If the election had been on Oct. 27, I would be your president," Clinton said in a CNN interview at a women’s conference in New York. She blamed her loss on Comey's disclosure, Russian hacking of Democratic Party emails and her own flaws as a candidate. In response, President Trump said on Twitter that Comey “was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!”“ The phony Trump/ Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election,” Trump tweeted. Comey repeatedly rebuffed questions Wednesday about the ongoing FBI counterintelligence investigation into whether any of Trump’s current or former aides cooperated with Russian intelligence agencies during the presidential race. Comey only disclosed that investigation to a House hearing in March and said it had begun last July, during the heat of the campaign. After the election, U. S. intelligence agencies concluded that Russia had deliberately sought to interfere in the race to aid Trump and to undermine Clinton. On Wednesday, Comey said he did not think he was inconsistent last fall when he disclosed that the FBI had obtained new evidence that might lead it to reopen its investigation of Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of State — but did not disclose a separate FBI investigation into whether members of Trump’s inner circle colluded with a foreign intelligence service. He said he only announced the Clinton email inquiry, which the FBI had code named Midyear Exam, when it was formally closed in July. He said he felt obliged to inform Congress in October when new Clinton emails were found in an unrelated investigation. Comey sent a follow-up letter two days before the election to say the additional emails did not change his earlier conclusion that charges against Clinton were not warranted. Comey’s many critics say his news conference in July — when he called Clinton’s handling of classified material “extremely careless” but said that she would not be charged — and then his disclosures to Congress at the end of a bitter national election campaign were improper since the FBI is not supposed to discuss cases unless charges are filed. In January, the Justice Department’s inspector general said he would investigate whether Comey violated department guidelines in his handling of the case. Comey said Wednesday that he welcomes the internal inquiry. “ If I did something wrong, I want to hear that,” he said. He specifically declined to say whether the White House is cooperating with the Russia investigation, or whether the FBI has sought to examine Trump’s tax returns for evidence of ties to Russia. Trump has refused to release his tax returns to the public. The FBI chief said Russia is still interested in trying to affect U. S. politics, and he believes it “a certainty” that Moscow will try to influence the elections in 2018 and 2020. In a detailed, at times emotional explanation of his actions, Comey laid out the sequence of events that he said led to his July 5 news conference, his Oct. 28 letter to Congress and a follow-up letter three days before the election. Comey said he decided the Justice Department was too compromised in July to publicly explain why Clinton would not be charged without “grievous damage to the American people’s confidence in the justice system.” A big reason, he said, was because Atty. Gen. Loretta Lynch had met privately with former President Clinton in June in what both later described as a social visit because they were both at the same airport. Under heavy criticism for meeting the former president while his wife was under an FBI investigation, Lynch recused herself from a direct role in the case. That gave Comey the authority to hold the politically sensitive news conference on his own, he said. He said he sent the Oct. 28 letter after FBI agents found emails from Hillary Clinton on a laptop computer used by former Rep. Anthony Weiner, the husband of Clinton aide Huma Abedin, and thought they might include what he called “golden missing emails” from Clinton’s first months at the State Department. The FBI had seized Weiner’s laptop in an investigation of sexual texts he had exchanged with a teenage girl. Agents found evidence that Abedin had passed classified emails to Weiner, who would print out emails for her to read, Comey said. But no charges were filed because the FBI could not “prove any sort of criminal intent,” he said. Comey said he and his top staff debated whether to go public, mindful of long-standing Justice Department policies that seek to avoid actions that could sway elections. Breaking that policy would be “really bad,” Comey said. But he said the only other choice, “concealment,” would have been “catastrophic.” “ We’ve got to walk into the world of really bad,” he said he concluded. “ We’ve got to tell Congress we are restarting this.” He said he made the decision even though a deputy said that might help elect Trump. Comey said he couldn’t consider that when making the call.“ Down that path lies the death of the FBI as an independent institution in America,” he said.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-senate-california-retirement-20170503-story.html
U. S. Senate votes to block California-led effort on retirement security for low-income workers - LA Times Jerry Brown Rich Pedroncelli / Associated Press California Gov. Jerry Brown signs legislation in September to automatically enroll millions of private-sector workers in retirement saving accounts. California Gov. Jerry Brown signs legislation in September to automatically enroll millions of private-sector workers in retirement saving accounts. ( Rich Pedroncelli / Associated Press) A pioneering, California-led effort to create retirement security for low-income workers has been thrown into jeopardy after the U. S. Senate voted Wednesday to block states from starting programs to automatically enroll millions of people in IRA-type savings plans. The measure, aimed at stopping the fledgling state retirement programs, now goes to President Trump, who has vowed to sign it. That leaves lawmakers in California, Illinois and other states who only months ago were celebrating the success of their long-planned initiative scrambling to regroup. The Senate voted 50 to 49 to stop the state plans. The retirement programs that were about to launch in seven states and are under consideration in many more were targeted by Wall Street firms and the U. S. Chamber of Commerce. The vote reflected the renewed influence of the business lobby in Washington since the 2016 election, with lawmakers defying the 38-million member AARP, a vocal supporter of the auto- IRA program. The seniors group had warned senators that its members would hold them accountable for their votes.“ Nobody had a problem with this except for the big Wall Street companies who invented in their mind that they would be losing business to these state innovations,” said Sen. Christopher S. Murphy ( D- Conn.), whose state was moving to implement an auto- IRA program. “ This is a terrible, terrible thing we are doing,” he said of the Senate’s vote to undermine the state programs. The California Secure Choice program and similar retirement laws generally require employers with no retirement plans to automatically invest a small percentage of each worker’s pay in a state-sponsored retirement account. Employees can opt out of the program if they choose. The money is managed by private investment firms that partner with the states. The accounts are intended to help build financial security for some 55 million workers nationwide whose employers do not offer a retirement plan. The push to implement the programs was delayed for years by complicated federal Labor Department rules governing such investment pools. In its final months, the Obama administration gave states the green light to pursue their vision. But Congress has now voted to revoke that authority, leaving the programs in limbo. Opponents of the state programs say they became too risky for consumers after the federal rules were changed. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch ( R- Utah) denounced the regulation permitting the retirement plans as something “that President Obama personally ordered Labor Secretary Tom Perez to draft as a gift to certain blue states.” Democrats on the Senate floor charged such arguments were a smoke screen to obscure an effort to protect the profits of big investment houses concerned their business could be eroded if companies moved their employees into state-sponsored plans. The congressional vote brought to a head an early confrontation between California and the Trump-era Congress. The retirement law is a signature achievement of California Senate leader Kevin de Leon, who worked on it for years. The House passed the measure to block the programs in March at the urging of De Leon’s fellow Californian and longtime political rival, Kevin Mc Carthy of Bakersfield, the House majority leader. De Leon has vowed to push ahead with the state’s effort, saying California can redesign its program to avoid federal approval. But such a redesign would make it more vulnerable to legal challenge, and probably delay implementation. California and other states were moved to address the large share of the workforce not enrolled in any retirement plan after efforts to create a federal automatic IRA program stalled years ago. Reports by some bipartisan think tanks and policy analysts suggest the programs could ultimately save states billions of dollars by creating a measure of financial security for elderly Americans who otherwise end up on the rolls of Medicaid, food stamps and other safety-net programs.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fg-trump-abbas-20170503-story.html
Trump's approach to an Israeli- Palestinian peace deal: Get to yes, and figure out the details later - LA Times WASHINGTON, DC - MAY 03: U. S President Donald Trump gives a joint statement with President Mahmoud A Olivier Douliery / Pool President Trump meets with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Wednesday. President Trump meets with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Wednesday. ( Olivier Douliery / Pool) Vowing to achieve where successive U. S. governments have failed, President Trump hosted Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas at the White House on Wednesday and expressed broad if unsubstantiated confidence that he might be able to broker “the toughest deal” — peace between Israelis and Palestinians.“ I’ve always heard that perhaps the toughest deal to make is the deal between the Israelis and the Palestinians; let’s prove them wrong,” Trump said, Abbas at his side. “ I will do whatever is necessary to facilitate the agreement — to mediate, to arbitrate, anything ...” Later, as the two leaders sat down to a working lunch in the White House Cabinet Room, Trump added that a resolution to what is generally considered one of the most intractable conflicts in the world was “something that I think is, frankly, maybe not as difficult as people have thought over the years.” Abbas responded with optimism and praise for Trump’s dealmaking ability, even though his list of Palestinian requirements for peace was unchanged from the one that has been aired during decades of earlier failed negotiations. Those include a viable, independent Palestinian state next to Israel, with its capital in East Jerusalem — the so-called two-state solution, which Trump has not endorsed.“ Mr. President, you have the determination and the desire to bring [a deal] to fruition,” Abbas said, speaking classical Arabic through an interpreter. “ We hope, God willing, we are coming to a new opportunity, a new horizon to bring it about.” Despite the opening flourishes of praise and goodwill, the meeting between Trump and Abbas was expected to become more uncomfortable behind closed doors, as the administration laid out a series of demands. Trump has been described by aides as being singularly fixated on delivering a Middle East peace deal, entrusting the portfolio to his son-in-law Jared Kushner despite Kushner’s financial connections to the building of settlements on land claimed by Palestinians. The White House went out of its way to build up Abbas during the visit, giving in to requests for a lunch with Trump beyond their meeting, as well as that the Palestinian flag be placed behind Trump while the two leaders made statements about the visit, a person close to the White House said. The White House felt that giving Abbas those symbolic concessions would help set the conditions for a better relationship and create an opening to demand that Abbas shut down terror incitement, stop payments by the Palestinian Authority to the families of those killed or imprisoned in terrorist attacks against Israelis, refrain from lobbying the United Nations for additional resolutions against Israel, and get on board toward a peace deal. But when it comes to what an eventual solution should look like, Trump has told close advisors that he’s not picky about the details, or even the broad outlines. Trump has expressed a willingness to jettison the long-standing U. S. stance that any resolution should be based on a two-state solution, hoping that would spur the two sides to look for more creative solutions. But other members of his administration, including Nikki Haley, the U. S. ambassador to the United Nations, have said the United States remains committed to a two-state solution. He has also threatened to move the U. S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, which would effectively recognize the disputed city as Israel’s capital and infuriate the Palestinians. Although Trump seems to have backed off publicly planning such a relocation, his vice president, Mike Pence, reiterated this week that it was still under consideration — although that’s the position that most U. S. administrations have taken for years, without ever carrying through." President Trump stands without apology for Israel, and he always will," Pence told a group of Israeli diplomats and others gathered Tuesday on the White House grounds to mark Israeli Independence Day. Trump previously hosted Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House. Fundamental issues as well as small details have sunk previous attempts to solve one of the most challenging foreign policy riddles any U. S. president faces, and many experts remain skeptical about whether Trump has the knowledge or patience to make good on the bold vows he made Wednesday.“ Never in decades of involvement [in the Middle East peace process] have I heard a U. S. president more confident with less prospect,” Aaron David Miller, a longtime Mideast negotiator for Democratic and Republican administrations, said via Twitter. J Street, a liberal, pro- Israel lobbying organization in Washington that is often critical of Trump policy, said in a statement that it welcomed the president’s “determination” but added that he would have to unequivocally commit to a two-state solution “without further delay if he is serious about pursuing peace." Daniel Shapiro, the last Obama administration ambassador to Israel, said he was glad to see the White House effort but hoped Trump’s aides learned from past mistakes and failures.“ Not sure if [ Netanyahu] or Abbas is more nervous,” Shapiro said on Twitter. “ Both could find themselves in the uncomfortable position of being asked 2 do hard things, saying no 2 [ Trump] & shifting blame.” Asked what was different this time around, given the repeated failures of past administrations to reach a Middle East accord, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said it was Trump: “ I think the man is different.”“ This president's style is one to develop a personal bond with individuals,” Spicer added in a briefing with reporters. “ And I think you saw that today with President Abbas, him talking so kindly about the president.” Personal contact and “backroom diplomacy” will pay dividends for the country, he said. Trump also hopes to enlist some Sunni Muslim Arab allies in crafting a deal. Several, especially among the Persian Gulf states, have quietly signaled a willingness to cooperate with the administration — and, by extension, with Israel — in exchange for tougher actions against their common enemy, Shiite Muslim Iran. Why Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas is upbeat about meeting Trump Joshua Mitnick The election of President Trump unnerved Palestinian officials. He appointed a financial patron of Israeli settlements as ambassador to Israel. He promised to move the U. S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to the disputed city of Jerusalem. And he appeared to back off the long-standing U. S. commitment to... The election of President Trump unnerved Palestinian officials. He appointed a financial patron of Israeli settlements as ambassador to Israel. He promised to move the U. S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to the disputed city of Jerusalem. And he appeared to back off the long-standing U. S. commitment to... ( Joshua Mitnick)
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fi-federal-reserve-interest-rate-20170503-story.html
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks on stage as part of a conversation put on by the Gerald R. Melanie Maxwell / Associated Press Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet L. Yellen speaks April 10 at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet L. Yellen speaks April 10 at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. ( Melanie Maxwell / Associated Press) Federal Reserve policymakers on Wednesday held a key interest rate steady, downplaying recent weak economic data and indicating they remained on track for two more rate hikes this year. Central bank officials said a sharp slowdown in the pace of economic growth in the first quarter "was likely to be transitory" and that the fundamentals underpinning continued growth in consumer spending "remained solid" despite a first-quarter performance that was the worst in seven years. In a policy statement following a two-day meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee highlighted what it called "solid" average gains in job growth in recent months, improved business investment and inflation running close to the central bank's 2% annual target. Committee members voted unanimously to hold the short-term federal funds rate, a key benchmark for consumer and business lending, to a target between 0.75% and 1%. The policy statement did not say anything about the timing of additional rate hikes, but that was a signal that Fed officials were sticking to the forecast at their last meeting, in March, for two more small rate hikes this year. “ The Fed's soothing words about the recent soft patch in the economic data signals they still believe gradual rate hikes are appropriate later this year,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Mitsubishi UFG Financial Group in New York. He added that a June rate hike “is very much on the table.” Analysts at Barclay’s Investment Bank agreed. They said in a research note that the Fed statement "lacked any tone of uncertainty over the state of the economy or hesitation over the path” for slowly raising rates.“ We maintain our call for rate hikes in June and September,” Barclays said. Analysts hadn't expected a rate hike Wednesday after 0.25 percentage point hikes in March and December. But they had been hoping for some indication of a rate hike at the Fed's next meeting in June. Before the announcement, investors had put the odds of a rate hike on Wednesday at 5%, according to the Fed Watch Tool by the CME Group futures exchange. The odds of a June rate hike were 67%. The Fed's meeting came amid continued uncertainty about Washington's fiscal policies and recent signs of softness in the U. S. economy. The nation's total economic output, known as gross domestic product, expanded at its slowest pace in two years in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said last week. The report showed the challenge facing President Trump as he pushes an ambitious but still vague tax cut plan that administration officials said would boost annual growth to a sustained 3% pace. The U. S. economy hasn't posted annual growth of 3% or more since 2006. The 0.7% annual growth rate in the first three months of this year — down sharply from 2.1% in the fourth quarter of 2016 — was fueled by anemic consumer spending. Although consumer confidence is up since Trump's election in November, consumer spending grew just 0.3% in the first quarter of the year. That was down from 3.5% the previous quarter. The labor market also has shown signs of weakness. The U. S. added just 98,000 net new jobs in March, the fewest in a year, although economists said weather was probably a factor. Fed policymakers said Wednesday that the labor market has "continued to strengthen" and indicated it viewed March's lackluster job growth as an anomaly. Overall economic growth is expected to pick up this spring. A closely watched estimate from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta is forecasting a 4.3% annual growth rate in the second quarter of this year.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fi-jobs-adp-20170503-story.html
Air Force veteran Thom Brownell uses a computer to search for a job at the Texas Workforce Solutions LM Otero / Associated Press Air Force veteran Thom Brownell uses a computer to search for a job at the Texas Workforce Solutions office in Dallas on March 10. Air Force veteran Thom Brownell uses a computer to search for a job at the Texas Workforce Solutions office in Dallas on March 10. ( LM Otero / Associated Press) Job creation by U. S. businesses slowed last month to its lowest level since fall as construction firms and retailers pulled back on their hiring, payroll firm Automatic Data Processing said Wednesday. Private-sector firms added a still-solid 177,000 net new jobs in April, ADP reported. But that was a sharp decline from a downwardly revised 255,000 the previous month and the fewest since October. The figures for April come after the government reported a sharp slowdown in consumer spending in the first three months of 2017 as the economy stumbled to its worst overall quarterly growth in two years.“ Job growth slowed in April due to a pullback in construction and retail jobs,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, which assists ADP in preparing its report. “ The softness in construction is continued payback from outsized growth during the mild winter,” he said. “ Brick-and-mortar retailers cut jobs in response to withering competition from online merchants.” Outsourcing firm Infosys says it will create 10,000 U. S. jobs Tracy Jan Infosys, a global tech outsourcing giant accused by President Trump of stealing American jobs, announced Tuesday that it plans to hire 10,000 U. S. workers over the next two years. The firm, based in India, plans to open four U. S.-based "hubs," starting in Indianapolis in August. Locations of the... Infosys, a global tech outsourcing giant accused by President Trump of stealing American jobs, announced Tuesday that it plans to hire 10,000 U. S. workers over the next two years. The firm, based in India, plans to open four U. S.-based "hubs," starting in Indianapolis in August. Locations of the... ( Tracy Jan) The ADP report is based on an analysis of the company’s payroll data. It is not an official government estimate — that will come Friday from the Labor Department — but can signal what those figures will show. Analysts expect the Labor Department to report that the economy added a total of 185,000 net new private- and public-sector jobs last month. That would be in line with the latest ADP data and a significant improvement over the disappointing 98,000 net new jobs the Labor Department reported for March. The unemployment rate is expected to have ticked up to 4.6% in April. Federal Reserve policymakers are analyzing recent economic data as they meet this week to decide whether to raise a key short-term interest rate. With economic and job growth slowing, Fed officials are expected to hold the rate steady when they announce their decision Wednesday. ADP’s figures don’t always align with the government’s official data. There was a large discrepancy in March. The big change in April’s ADP data came from construction companies, which reduced their payrolls by 2,000. Those businesses had added 44,000 net new jobs in March and a total of 154,000 in the first three months of the year as unusually warm weather allowed spring projects to begin early. Manufacturers added 11,000 net new jobs in April, about a third of the previous month’s growth, ADP said. And job growth in the leisure and hospitality industry declined to 35,000 in April from 50,000 the previous month.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-tt-gop-healthcare-20170502-story.html
House Republicans do not like guaranteeing health coverage for pre-existing conditions. David Horsey / Los Angeles Times Top of the Ticket cartoon Top of the Ticket cartoon ( David Horsey / Los Angeles Times) I’ve been lucky. I was born a healthy baby. Other than childhood rounds of measles and chicken pox and annoying yearly bouts with springtime pollen, I’ve enjoyed a disease-free life. So far, no hereditary predispositions toward any awful affliction have shown up. Other than a weakness for doughnuts and cheeseburgers, I eat pretty well and haven’t gotten fat. I exercise sporadically, but stay in reasonably good shape. Occasionally I drink enough to regret it in the morning, but I’ve never smoked or abused drugs. I’ve broken ribs three times — once after falling on an icy ski slope, once in a motorcycle mishap in Vietnam and once when a horse decided to buck me off onto a pile of rocks. I guess you could say those injuries were my fault for not staying at home watching TV in a recliner, but I generally make choices that avoid foolish risks. Health insurers love me. I only rarely make a claim. They take far more money from me than they return in coverage. As a result, I guess I should be a fan of the House Republican healthcare plan because it is supposed to help people like me. Alabama Rep. Mo Brooks explained this to CNN’s Jake Tapper on Monday as he made the case for a revised version of the Republican scheme to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, a.k.a. Obamacare. Fortunate people who live healthy, responsible lives should not have to subsidize care for people who are not so fortunate or responsible, Brooks said. The GOP plan “will allow insurance companies to require people who have higher healthcare costs to contribute more to the insurance pool that helps offset all these costs, thereby reducing the cost to those people who lead good lives — they’re healthy, they’ve done the things to keep their bodies healthy,” Brooks said. Another House Republican, Kansas Rep. Roger Marshall, gave an interview recently in which he recalled how Jesus said “the poor will always be with us” and many of those poor folks, Marshall insisted, simply do not want healthcare.“ There is a group of people that just don’t want healthcare and aren’t going to take care of themselves,” Marshall said. People on Medicaid do not exercise or eat well or seek preventative medicine, the congressman claimed, and so they end up in emergency rooms only when things get really bad, like “when their arm is chopped off.” Healthcare debacle results from Republicans believing their own myths David Horsey Donald Trump and congressional Republicans created a political debacle for themselves by believing a set of scare stories about Obamacare that came back to haunt them. It is an object lesson in how false realities ultimately pop like soap bubbles when pricked by plain old truth. There are five... Donald Trump and congressional Republicans created a political debacle for themselves by believing a set of scare stories about Obamacare that came back to haunt them. It is an object lesson in how false realities ultimately pop like soap bubbles when pricked by plain old truth. There are five... ( David Horsey) Putting aside evidence that contradicts Marshall’s contentions about the poor — such as the fact that expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act in Arkansas and Kentucky has led recipients to seek more primary care and make fewer visits to the ER — the comments of the two GOP House members reveals a viewpoint at the heart of Republican opposition to the proposition that everyone has a right to healthcare. Conservatives like Brooks and Marshall do not believe Americans should share the cost of illness. They seem to think sickness is, more often than not, the fault of the person who is sick. People born into poverty or those with preexisting conditions should bear their own burdens and not expect the rich and healthy to chip in for the cost of their care. That seems to be the bottom line for those who are, this week, taking another shot at ending Obamacare. President Trump keeps promising that no one is going to tamper with the current prohibition against denying coverage to people with preexisting ailments, but, just as was the case with an earlier failed version of the Republican healthcare bill, he is ignoring what is actually in the legislation his party is pushing. In order to get the votes of conservative hard-liners, House GOP leaders have gone even further in the latest iteration to strip away provisions for the poor and for people with chronic diseases and handicaps. If we took the tough-minded Republican view to its logical conclusion, we would eliminate Medicare. There are quite a few old people gobbling up a lot of health services at taxpayer expense. Those people should have taken better care of themselves. Or they shouldn’t have let themselves get old. I guess I look at it another way. I’ve lived a healthy life, but, mostly, I’ve been lucky. That’s my reward right there. That is why I don’t mind sharing a bit of the cost with my fellow citizens whose luck has not been so good, even if some of them brought it on themselves. We really are all in this together. And I think Jesus would agree. David. Horsey@latimes.com Follow me at @davidhorsey on Twitter Poverty Mo Brooks Republican Party Affordable Care Act Medicaid American Health Care Act David Horsey
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-obamacare-congress-20170502-story.html
Renewed effort by congressional Republicans to repeal Obamacare stalls No vote is planned for what could mark the third attempt by the GOP to overhaul healthcare.  The latest version of the Republican effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act is teetering on the verge of failure as the conversation among Republicans on Capitol Hill has shifted to soul-searching and recriminations over what went wrong in their long campaign to end Obamacare. Though House leaders say they have not given up on the effort, no vote is planned and some senior GOP lawmakers signaled their dissent. A failure to vote before the House goes on recess at the end of the week would mark the third time Republicans tried to muster support from their ranks to advance the healthcare overhaul, only to have to make an embarrassing retreat at the last minute. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan and other leaders, including Vice President Mike Pence, engaged in a flurry of closed-door meetings Tuesday at the Capitol. Some estimates put the vote count within single digits of the 216 needed for passage, but others numbered Republican defections at more than 30, well over the 22 the party can afford to lose. Rank-and-file lawmakers say they are being bombarded by calls to their offices and protests at home. Of particular concern is that this latest version of the bill contains a provision, added to attract votes from conservatives, that would effectively end Obamacare’s guarantee of insurance coverage for those with preexisting conditions. States could allow insurers to charge sick people more and offer them coverage through so-called high-risk pools, which many states operated before Obamacare. But experts and consumer advocates panned this arrangement as unaffordable.“ They’re scared,” said Rep. Tom Rooney ( R- Fla.), whose district voted for President Trump. “[ They] feel like they’re about to lose it and they’re going to die. And if we cannot explain to people that is not going to happen, then it’s going to be very difficult to ever bring a bill to the floor.” Many lawmakers expressed frustration at having to figure out on their own how the recent changes to the bill would affect consumers. A side-by-side comparison of Obamacare and the GOP's repeal plan Noam N. Levey and Kyle Kim Noam N. Levey and Kyle Kim They complain that Trump should be playing a bigger role, explaining the legislation to wary voters, while others bemoan that Congress never dug into the thorny policy details to devise a workable healthcare alternative. Among the notable recent defections was Rep. Fred Upton ( R- Mich.), former chairman of a key committee that approved the bill earlier this year. He told the Michigan radio station WHTC- AM on Tuesday that he was now opposed, uncomfortable with latest revisions, according to the Detroit News. Leaders have indicated they will no longer be making adjustments to the bill, the American Health Care Act, because tweaks made to win support from the conservative House Freedom Caucus have only served to chase away centrists Republicans. GOP Reps. Ken Calvert of Corona and Dana Rohrabacher of Costa Mesa are among those who supported the original version of the bill but have backed away from the amended version. Another, Rep. Doug La Malfa of Richvale, remained undecided.“ That’s part of my own internal struggle — if we do something and it’s still harmful to a lot of folks,” La Malfa said. The growing prospect that Trump and Ryan won’t get the votes to advance the healthcare bill doesn’t necessarily kill the long Obamacare repeal effort. But G. William Hoagland, a former Senate Republican budget official who is now senior vice president at the Bipartisan Policy Center, said failing to get a vote by Friday would make it very difficult for House Republicans to carry on their repeal campaign much longer.“ At a certain point, the politics become hard to sustain and it comes time to call it like it is and move on,” he said. There has been very little enthusiasm among Senate Republicans for the House bill. That means less incentive for House Republicans to risk political backlash for a bill that faces such an uncertain future in the Senate. Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell of Kentucky did little to calm those fears Tuesday when he suggested passage in the Senate would be a “real big challenge.” The longer the hunt for votes drags on, the more it exposes lawmakers to the risks of doing nothing or approving a bill that, so far, polls show has little public support.“ They’ve got a trifecta going,” said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) during an interview Tuesday with the Los Angeles Times.“ They lose if they bring it up and it passes the House and the Senate and then the public sees what that is — that’s a loser. They lose if they bring it up in the House and they can’t pass it in the Senate because they’ve now walked the plank for nothing. And then they’re now in another losing situation because it doesn’t appear that they’re going to have the votes.”“ It is doggie doo on their shoe,” Pelosi said. “ They cannot get away from it.” Trump and House Republican leaders labored in recent days to push the bill forward, making the case that it would not threaten critical health protections in the Affordable Care Act. Over the weekend, Trump and other administration officials tried to argue that Americans with preexisting medical conditions would still be protected.“ Health care plan is on its way,” Trump wrote in one tweet. “ Will have much lower premiums & deductibles while at the same time taking care of pre-existing conditions!” But the legislation’s sweeping cuts to healthcare assistance for millions of low- and moderate-income Americans — some 24 million more people would likely be without insurance with the bill — energized a nationwide resistance movement against it. At the same time, not a single major group representing doctors, hospitals and patients supported the House legislation. Ryan echoed Trump’s promise, insisting that proposed changes to the House bill by Rep. Tom Mac Arthur ( R- N. J.) would force states that scrap Obamacare protections to offer other options, such as special high-risk health plans for patients with preexisting conditions. But the Mac Arthur amendment was greeted with derision by leading physician and patient groups — including the American Diabetes Assn., the March of Dimes and the advocacy arm of the American Cancer Society — which warned in increasingly stark language that it would be disastrous for sick Americans. Still, Mac Arthur was among those who warned that the window for action was closing.“ It’s this week or it’s very difficult,” said the former insurance executive. “ How many times are we going to go through this?”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-dictators-20170502-story.html
LA 90: Trump praising dictators Why is President Trump praising autocrats, despots and dictators? ( May 3, 2017)   Why is President Trump praising autocrats, despots and dictators? ( May 3, 2017)   President Trump says he’d be “honored” to meet the North Korean despot Kim Jong Un. Egypt’s president, who allowed his opponents to be shot, is doing a “fantastic job.” The president of the Philippines, who unleashed vigilante killings at home, is welcome at the White House. So is Thailand’s prime minister, who took power in a military coup. And Turkey’s president, who jailed thousands of opponents, got a congratulatory call. This is not business as usual for U. S. presidents. Trump’s advisors portray his public praise for foreign dictators and his willingness to meet with ruthless autocrats, without preconditions in most cases, as a way to shore up shaky alliances and possibly unlock long-frozen conflicts in the Middle East and across Asia. Trump, they say, believes he can use his personal charm and negotiating skills to forge ties to despots ostracized by previous presidents, and thus bring them to his way of thinking. Critics say that outreach threatens to disrupt America’s long-standing strategic partnerships, undermines the credibility of U. S. democratic values overseas and emboldens autocrats who use bloody measures at home to suppress dissent. Why Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas is upbeat about meeting Trump Joshua Mitnick The election of President Trump unnerved Palestinian officials. He appointed a financial patron of Israeli settlements as ambassador to Israel. He promised to move the U. S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to the disputed city of Jerusalem. And he appeared to back off the long-standing U. S. commitment to... The election of President Trump unnerved Palestinian officials. He appointed a financial patron of Israeli settlements as ambassador to Israel. He promised to move the U. S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to the disputed city of Jerusalem. And he appeared to back off the long-standing U. S. commitment to... ( Joshua Mitnick) Trump spoke Tuesday with Russian President Vladimir Putin, their third phone call since the November election and their first since U. S. warships launched cruise missiles at a Syrian air base on April 7 to punish Russia’s major Middle East ally, Syrian President Bashar Assad, for a nerve gas attack that killed dozens of civilians. In a statement, the White House described the conversation as “a very good one,” saying Trump and Putin discussed the war in Syria, including creation of safe zones and the “best way to resolve the very dangerous situation in North Korea.” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson told reporters at the State Department that it was a "very, very fulsome call, a lot of detailed exchanges." Trump no longer publicly praises Putin as often or as effusively as he did during the campaign, but nor does he criticize him. U. S. intelligence agencies see Putin as a major adversary who has tried to undermine U. S. relationships in Europe and interfered in the 2016 election to help Trump win. Other presidents have bucked foreign policy orthodoxy to reach out to adversaries. In perhaps the most famous case, President Nixon set aside the GOP’s anti-communist policies to make his historic overture to China in 1972, leading to a tectonic shift in the Cold War. President Obama was criticized as naive and worse by Republicans and by his chief Democratic rival at the time, Hillary Clinton, after he was asked at a debate in 2007 whether he would be willing to meet separately, without condition, with the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea." I would," Obama said at the time. " And the reason is this, that the notion that somehow not talking to countries is punishment to them — which has been the guiding diplomatic principle of [the Bush] administration — is ridiculous." During his second term, the Obama administration signed a landmark deal with Iran to curb its nuclear development in exchange for easing sanctions and restored diplomatic relations with the communist government in Cuba, ending a freeze that began in 1961. But those were methodically planned and slowly plotted moves that followed years of secret and public diplomacy. The speed and enthusiasm that Trump has shown in his effort to connect with renegade leaders is unusual. Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax, a conservative media group, and longtime friend of Trump, said the president’s outreach abroad is part of a strategy.“ I think he wants to build bridges,” Ruddy said. “ He sees that if he can open up the door by praising someone or finding something to compliment, even a guy that might be considered a bad guy, he sees that as a step in the right direction.” But does Trump really admire Putin, Kim and other autocratic leaders? What the president is signaling is that there is always an opportunity to talk, but that is very far from saying there are no preconditions. — James Carafano, fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation “ I wouldn’t use the word ‘admires,’” Ruddy said. “ I think he respects people who are considered strong or people that have very high approval in their countries. That’s important for him.” The White House already cites evidence that its strategy has paid off. After Trump met with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Sisi, for example, Cairo released Aya Hijazi, an Egyptian American aid worker who had been jailed for three years amid Sisi’s crackdown on civil society. The Obama administration, which had kept Sisi at arm’s length, had pressed unsuccessfully for her release. As often with Trump, his comments sometimes have veered wildly, keeping his adversaries — and much of Washington — off balance. Last week, for example, Trump warned darkly of the possibility of a “major, major conflict” with North Korea in the standoff over its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. On Sunday, however, Trump praised Kim as “a pretty smart cookie” for having survived a power struggle, and a day later said he would be “honored” to meet Kim “under the right circumstances.” No U. S. president has ever met one of North Korea’s dynastic dictators. White House aides later downplayed the likelihood that Trump would be the first, at least under current circumstances. Trump’s offer to meet such notorious leaders reflects his negotiating style, which says that “you never close off the opportunity to do a deal,” said James Carafano, a fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation who has briefed the president and his team on foreign policy.“ What the president is signaling is that there is always an opportunity to talk, but that is very far from saying there are no preconditions,” Carafano said. “ You’re always offering [the other leader] an offramp: ‘ Change your behavior and meet my preconditions.’ ” Trump’s National Security Council recently completed a policy review on North Korea and recommended a carrot-and-stick combination of increased pressure and greater engagement. Jim Walsh, a security policy expert at MIT, said an open channel of communication with North Korea could help prevent war. But he warned that Trump's seesawing statements also could be misunderstood in Pyongyang.“ Because you can get to war through miscalculation, misperception,” he said. “ Frankly, the last several weeks we’ve heard a lot of bluffing, a lot of changing positions.” Sen. John Mc Cain ( R- Ariz.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Trump’s comments were disturbing." I don't understand it and I don't think that the president appreciates the fact that when he says things like that it helps the credibility and the prestige of this really outrageous strongman," Mc Cain said. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Monday that Trump understands the threat North Korea poses." There is a diplomatic piece to this," Spicer said. " The bottom line is the president is going to do what he has to do." Spicer also defended Trump's invitation to Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to visit Washington. Human rights groups say Duterte has either encouraged or condoned a brutal campaign of extrajudicial killings that has left more than 7,000 alleged drug users dead since he took office last year. Spicer said the White House was aware of the killings but said Trump sees an opportunity “to work with countries … that can help play a role in diplomatically and economically isolating North Korea." The Philippines has no political or economic ties with Pyongyang, so its ostensible role in a containment strategy is unclear. Duterte, for his part, told reporters he might be too busy to visit Washington. Obama canceled a meeting with Duterte on the sidelines of an overseas summit last year after the Philippine leader offered a coarse insult when asked his response to U. S. concerns about the drug crackdown. Duterte has since threatened to cancel a mutual defense treaty and other ties. But U. S. officials are concerned that he has reached out to China and Russia for support, and the White House is eager to improve relations with the leader of the longtime U. S. ally to help counter growing Chinese influence in Southeast Asia. Staff writers Noah Bierman and Michael A. Memoli contributed to this report.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-jimmy-kimmel-preexisting-conditions-20170502-story.html
After his son is born with heart condition, Jimmy Kimmel calls for healthcare bickering to end - LA Times Jimmy Kimmel Randy Holmes / Associated Press Jimmy Kimmel on " Jimmy Kimmel Live!" Jimmy Kimmel on " Jimmy Kimmel Live!" ( Randy Holmes / Associated Press) When Jimmy Kimmel’s son, Billy, was born on April 21, the late-night talk show host’s elation was quickly overtaken by utter distress. Within hours of Billy’s birth, a nurse heard a murmur in the newborn’s heart and noticed he was "a bit purple." In the opening monologue on “ Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Monday night, the host tearfully shared the diagnosis: genetic condition known as Tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia. In layman’s terms that meant that baby Billy had a hole in the wall of his heart and the pulmonary artery was completely blocked. Billy became one of the millions of Americans with a preexisting condition. It’s a group who may have to pay more for health insurance under the proposed Republican alternative to the Affordable Care Act, a topic Kimmel chose to speak bluntly about during his ABC show. Tearful Jimmy Kimmel shares story of newborn son's heart defect and surgery Jevon Phillips Everything about the birth of Jimmy Kimmel's son Billy was going great, according to the late-night host -- until things got really sca... Everything about the birth of Jimmy Kimmel's son Billy was going great, according to the late-night host -- until things got really sca... ( Jevon Phillips) After an open-heart surgery that was "the longest three hours of my life," Kimmel's son had one of the heart defects fixed. He will need another surgery in three to six months and another one in his early teens. For now, he's at home recovering with his family. After thanking the team at Children's Hospital Los Angeles for saving his son's life and joking that he was "definitely getting a vasectomy after this," Kimmel turned to politics. He brought up President Trump's proposal to cut nearly $6 billion from the National Institutes of Health, and he thanked lawmakers for instead boosting funding by another $2 billion in the final version of the budget." More than 40% of the people who would have been affected by those cuts to the National Institutes of Health are children," he said, including patients at the hospital where his son had surgery. " We were brought up to believe that we live in the greatest country in the world," he continued. " But until a few years ago millions and millions of us had no access to health insurance at all. You know, before 2014, if you were born with congenital heart disease, like my son was, there was a good chance you'd never be able to get health insurance because you had a preexisting condition." Tetralogy of Fallot occurs in approximately one of out every 2,500 births in the United States — that means about 1,660 babies each year are born with that specific preexisting condition. At least some of the political rhetoric about preexisting conditions has focused more on individuals whose health woes can be tied to lifestyle choices. Earlier this week, Rep. Mo Brooks ( R- Ala.) did an interview on CNN in which he said charging people with preexisting conditions more for insurance cuts costs for "people who live good lives."" They're healthy, they've done the things to keep their bodies healthy," Brooks said, referring to people without preexisting conditions. " Right now those are the people who’ve done things the right way, that are seeing their costs skyrocketing." Brooks did go on to say that he would make an exception for those people whose preexisting conditions were due to no fault of their own: " I think our society under those circumstances needs to help," he said. The GOP alternative to Obamacare currently has no provision differentiating the type of preexisting condition someone has (i.e. baby born with a medical condition versus lifelong smoker with emphysema). Trump has repeatedly promised that his Obamacare replacement will protect people with preexisting conditions — a population that includes as many as one in four Americans. Paul Ryan's idea to cover preexisting conditions via high-risk pools is a scam. Here's why. Michael Hiltzik In yet another attempt to show that Republicans can be just as serious about healthcare reforms as Democrats, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) called Wednesday for eliminating the Affordable Care Act's guarantee of insurance for people with preexisting medical conditions. Ryan didn't advocate... In yet another attempt to show that Republicans can be just as serious about healthcare reforms as Democrats, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) called Wednesday for eliminating the Affordable Care Act's guarantee of insurance for people with preexisting medical conditions. Ryan didn't advocate... ( Michael Hiltzik) In its current incarnation, the GOP's healthcare proposal would allow insurers to either charge people with preexisting conditions more, or not cover them at all if the state has a high-risk pool in place. ( Columnist Michael Hiltzik has laid out some of the issues with high-risk pools, including examples of them not working when they've been tried in the past.) Under Obamacare, insurers have to cover people with preexisting conditions and cannot charge them more because of it. Kimmel, near the close of his monologue, called politicians bickering over healthcare "partisan nonsense" and urged people to reach out to their lawmakers." If your baby is going to die and it doesn't have to, it shouldn't matter how much money you make. I think that's something that, whether you're a Republican or a Democrat or something else, we all agree on that, right?" Kimmel asked the audience. " No parent should ever have to decide if they can afford to save their child's life. It just shouldn't happen. Not here."
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-obamacare-101-preexisting-conditions-20170502-htmlstory.html
Obamacare 101: Will sick Americans still be able to get insurance under the House Republican bill? - LA Times Q & A Obamacare 101: Would sick Americans still be able to get insurance under the House Republican bill? patient Associated Press A patient with glaucoma gets an exam in Augusta, Ga. A patient with glaucoma gets an exam in Augusta, Ga. ( Associated Press) Healthcare Policies and Laws Health Insurance Republican Party Jimmy Kimmel Diabetes Donald Trump Affordable Care Act As they scramble to get votes to advance legislation to roll back the Affordable Care Act, President Trump and House Republican leaders insist their bill would protect Americans who have preexisting medical conditions. But most healthcare experts and patient advocates dispute this, noting that the House GOP plan would allow states to scrap many protections put in place by Obamacare, as the law is often called. This week, even late-night talk host Jimmy Kimmel jumped into the debate, telling his viewers Monday night about how his son was born with a congenital heart condition that would have once made him uninsurable. If you’re trying to make sense of the competing arguments, here’s a look at Obamacare’s protections for sick patients and how those safeguards could change under the GOP alternative. Obamacare 101 is a periodic primer on the debate over repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act » How did Obamacare change how preexisting conditions are handled? One of the healthcare law’s most revolutionary advances was prohibiting health insurers from denying coverage to people with preexisting medical conditions, a protection called guaranteed issue. The practice of denying coverage was once widespread in the insurance industry. In order to get healthcare coverage (if they did not get it through work), consumers had to fill out detailed medical histories. And insurance companies routinely turned down people who had had major illnesses, such as cancer, or even less serious ailments such as arthritis. Alternatively, insurers would charge people with preexisting medical conditions more for their health plans. This also was barred by Obamacare, a protection that is known as community rating. Jimmy Kimmel reveals his son was born with a heart defect. How many people did these new protections affect? It is difficult to know how many sick Americans who were denied coverage before Obamacare now have a health plan. But federal census data and other surveys show that more than 20 million previously uninsured people have gained coverage since the law began guaranteeing coverage in 2014. At the same time, other research suggests that as many as one in four Americans have some kind of preexisting medical condition, which could have made them uninsurable before 2014. What would the House Republican plan do? The American Health Care Act, as the House Republican healthcare bill is called, does not eliminate the guaranteed issue provision of Obamacare. But a proposed amendment to the bill by Rep. Tom Mac Arthur ( R- N. J.) would make some significant changes to the insurance protections enacted in Obamacare. Importantly, the amendment would allow states to obtain a waiver from the federal government to eliminate the community rating requirement in the current law. That would allow insurance companies to once again charge consumers with preexisting medical conditions more for coverage. In other words, a patient with diabetes, heart disease or cancer might still be “guaranteed” coverage, but only if he or she agreed to pay five or 10 times as much for a health plan. But didn’t Trump and other Republicans say the bill would enhance protections for patients with preexisting conditions? Yes. Supporters of the amendment say that sick Americans would still be protected in these states because the amendment, among other things, requires states to enact other protections, such as offering a special insurance plan for sick customers, known as a high-risk pool. The House bill offers states billions of dollars to operate these high-risk pools." The AHCA provides significant resources at the federal and state level for risk-sharing programs that lower premiums for all people," House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) claims on his website. So would sick consumers be protected? Not necessarily. Nothing in the amendment requires states to certify that health plans available through the high-risk pools would be affordable. Patients with preexisting conditions in some states would no longer be protected.— American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network That means that many sick consumers might not be able to buy such a plan, leaving them once again unable to get coverage, as many were before Obamacare. In fact, many states operated high-risk pools before the current law was enacted. Most were underfunded, forcing states to either charge unaffordable rates for coverage or cap how many people could sign up for a plan. Do advocates for the sick think the legislation will protect patients? In a word, no. Not a single major group representing physicians or patients supports the House bill. In a letter to lawmakers last month, the American Cancer Society’s advocacy arm warned that the proposal could “have the effect of returning the nation to a patchwork system of health coverage in which patients with preexisting conditions in some states would no longer be protected.” And this week, a coalition of 10 leading patient advocacy groups, including the American Diabetes Assn., the American Heart Assn., the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and the March of Dimes, called on Congress to scrap the approach.“ We challenge lawmakers to remember their commitment to their constituents and the American people to protect lifesaving healthcare for millions of Americans, including those who struggle every day with chronic and other major health conditions,” the groups warned.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fi-trade-deficit-trump-obsession-20170502-htmlstory.html
( FILES) This file photo taken on January 23, 2017 shows US President Donald Trump signing an executi Saul Loeb / AFP/ Getty Images President Trump signs an executive order. President Trump signs an executive order. ( Saul Loeb / AFP/ Getty Images) Throughout his young presidency, just as he did in the campaign, Donald Trump has insisted that much of what’s wrong with the U. S. economy boils down to one thing: big trade deficits. If only the United States sold more to the rest of the world than it bought overseas, Trump argues, the country would take a dramatic turn for the better. That would be true especially in manufacturing, the thinking goes, where the shift to foreign factories has cost millions of American jobs. But focusing so much on the trade deficit as a scorecard on economic health, many experts say, is not only misguided, but it also diverts attention and resources away from problems that will have a far bigger impact on Americans’ long-term well-being. No question U. S. trade in goods is lopsided But while Trump’s fixation on trade deficits has proven to be an effective political message, he overstates their economic importance, critics say. The flaw in using deficits or surpluses to size up U. S. commercial relations with any single country, which Trump tends to do, ignores the complexities of trade in today’s global economy. The trade gap with Mexico, for example, looks very big — $63 billion last year. But the reality is that about 40% of the value of the goods imported from Mexico is made in the U. S. Trump vs. economists Trump says trade deficits: are the central cause of U. S. manufacturing and economic woes indicate trading partners need the U. S. more than the other way around if reversed, will create many jobs and reopen factories Experts say trade deficits: reflect a low savings rate relative to consumption and investment don’t necessarily give the U. S. an advantage at the negotiating table if reversed, may not add many new jobs due to automation The problem is aggravated by the president’s informal, zig-zag approach to trade policy. Last week, Trump suggested he was about to tear up the 23-year-old North American Free Trade Act. Hours later the White House said amicable negotiations over modifying the deal are on track. Similarly, Trump’s fondness for off-the-cuff remarks, which he sometimes acknowledges later were based on insufficient understanding of the issue, make it hard for administration officials to focus on basic strategies. The link between trade deficits and jobs is not so clear Changes in the trade balance and the number of manufacturing jobs have often moved in opposite directions. During economic downturns, U. S. trade balances tend to improve amid sharp drops in imports even as factories cut back on employment. Trump may be overplaying his hand when it comes to the impact of deficits. He thinks big trade deficits give the U. S. leverage to make trading partners offer sweeter terms.“ We have massive trade deficits. So when we’re the country with the deficits, we have no fear,” he said last week when asked whether he worried about sparking a trade war after slapping tariffs on Canadian lumber. But having a big deficit doesn’t give the U. S. a particular advantage at the bargaining table, said Wendy Cutler, a top trade negotiator in the Obama administration. Even the opposite may be true, some say: Big deficits can reduce U. S. bargaining power because any sudden action to cut back imports would send damaging shock waves through the nation’s economy. Secretary of Treasury Steven Mnuchin, right, and National Economic Director Gary Cohn. ( Mark Wilson / Getty Images) Trump’s tax plan may undermine his trade goals Because Trump’s tax proposal does not have enough spending offsets to pay for the cuts, it will increase the national debt. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen ( Susan Walsh / Associated Press) That higher borrowing by the U. S. government will push up interest rates. A New York Stock Exchange trader ( Bryan R. Smith / AFP/ Getty Images) Higher rates will attract global investments in U. S. Treasury bonds. Increased demand for U. S. bonds will tend to strengthen the U. S. dollar. President Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau ( Saul Loeb / AFP/ Getty Images) The rise in the dollar means American exports will become more expensive and imports will be cheaper. Weaker demand for U. S. exports and cheaper prices for imported goods will worsen the trade deficit. Focusing on deficits overlooks more important factors While no one argues that trade deficits are a good thing, most economists see them as symptoms of deeper problems. Addressing those long-term problems is likely to yield better results than haggling over present-day trade deals, which harm some Americans but help others. High on the list of long-range changes needed to assure future prosperity for the United States is increasing the skills of American workers. To borrow a term from the world of sports, it’s a matter of “matchups.” Today, many American workers compete head-to-head with foreign workers for jobs that require relatively modest skills and education. That’s a matchup U. S. workers cannot win, because workers in most other countries are paid less and what they produce can be sold for less. Students at Lansing Community College in Michigan learn about advanced precision machining. ( Carlos Osorio / Associated Press) The answer, economists and other analysts say, is to train Americans for positions that require more technical skills than the low-wage foreign workers possess. Investing in more education and training will pay especially big dividends because the increasingly high-tech economy of the future will make lower-skilled workers less and less valuable. That will take time and money. But so far, such investment does not seem to be a priority for Trump.“ We have to focus on upgrading skills of American workers,” said Raghuram Rajan, a University of Chicago Booth School of Business professor and former governor of India’s central bank. A lot of the new jobs, he added, are in the service industry, but getting them into rural areas and smaller communities is a big challenge. “ These are important questions that the administration has to ask.” The dismal U. S. saving rate is a bigger factor Another long-term problem that is largely going unaddressed is the admittedly arcane issue of how much money Americans — and the federal government — save. For many years, Americans have saved at much lower rates than the countries that have risen to become major economic challengers, especially China. Why does saving matter so much? After all, by becoming a nation of consumers, not savers, most Americans enjoy one of the highest standards of living in the world. The trouble is that because the country is saving too little, it is indirectly paying for much of its consumption — and its investments — by borrowing from foreigners. Trump’s tax plan unveiled last week would only make matters worse, policy experts say, because his proposal for massive tax cuts for businesses would increase U. S. government debts by trillions of dollars, which would tend to push up the trade deficit. In one sense, the most important U. S. export is the dollar. Because the dollar is considered the safest currency in the world, foreign nations and wealthy firms and individuals buy and hold huge reserves of greenbacks, even though they earn very little interest. That may help U. S. consumers and the government in the short run, but the failure of Americans to save more means the country has trouble financing the big modernization and educational projects that would give it a better future.“ The intuition is that if you make U. S. firms and workers more productive, they’ll be more competitive internationally. And if they’re more competitive, we’ll be able to export more,” said Barry Eichengreen, professor of economics and political science at UC Berkeley who was a senior advisor to the International Monetary Fund.“ But if you haven’t done anything in the meantime to change savings or investment, you’ll also be importing more — and you will not have narrowed the external deficit.” What worries Eichengreen is that Trump may, in fact, end up discouraging savings with his deregulation of financial insitutions and other policies. Trump administration officials, he said, “are not exactly informed by economic literacy.” President Trump signs an executive order Saturday establishing the Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy. ( Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press) To be sure, most economists and trade specialists applaud efforts by Washington to make its trading partners play fairly, which many don’t always do. U. S. exporters face a range of barriers that countries erect against imported goods, barriers that are not immediately recognizable as trade policies. Trump recently ordered a probe of exporters of cheap steel, a move aimed at targeting China’s huge overproduction of steel that has caused a global glut and slump in prices. That has made American-produced steel hard to compete, even though just 3% of U. S. iron and steel imports last year came from China.“ Our government has done nothing to stop the trade cheating that is rampant in the world,” said Dan Di Micco, former chairman of steelmaker Nucor Corp. and a principal trade advisor to Trump during the campaign. In some cases foreign governments will impose highly demanding health and safety rules for imports, even though they may be more interested in discouraging imports than in protecting their citizens. But most trade specialists say that attacking these and other barriers require careful and time-consuming efforts by U. S. officials, not dramatic unilateral action. If Trump remains focused on his fiery rhetoric about trade deals such as the North American Free Trade Agreement — which includes both Mexico and Canada — it may do little to address the deep-seated problems that undergird trade relations. And tearing up existing agreements such as NAFTA or resorting to new tariffs could bring more lost jobs and new damage to the U. S. manufacturers that Trump promises to help. For instance, hundreds of thousands of cars assembled by U. S. automakers in Mexico and then imported into the American market contain parts or major components made in this country. So, quick action to curtail auto imports would have quick negative effects on many U. S. factories and workers. It would take many years and billions of dollars to build new assembly plants inside the United States. Moreover, highly automated new plants would need only a fraction of the workers employed in the old auto industry. Worse, the expected jobs might never return to U. S. shores at all. They could likely just shift to other lower-wage countries. That’s what happened a few years ago when Washington levied big tariffs on imported Chinese tires. China accounts for nearly half of the United States’ $735-billion deficit in tradable goods and Chinese tires were seen as a particularly sore point. The tariffs did make Chinese tires more expensive. But, instead of resulting in a surge of demand for American-made tires, U. S. purchasers shifted to Thailand, Indonesia and other low-cost producers, with little change in domestic industry employment. The tire story is not unique. Experience shows that attacking a trade gap with one country by applying tariffs or other restrictions often increases the deficit with another country that is making and shipping those same products.“ What Trump is trying to suggest is that if we impose some kind of import barrier, we’re going to get a bunch of jobs back,” said Edward Leamer, director of the UCLA Anderson Forecast. “ And that seems highly doubtful.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-school-lunches-20170501-story.html
New Agriculture secretary says he’ll roll back Michelle Obama’s healthy school lunches initiative - LA Times New USDA secretary announces rollback of Obama-era nutrition standards for school lunches Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said that he would roll back nutrition standards set by the Healthy, Hunger- Free Kids Act. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said that he would roll back nutrition standards set by the Healthy, Hunger- Free Kids Act. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said Monday that he would roll back part of former First Lady Michelle Obama’s healthy eating initiative: stricter nutritional standards for school lunches. Perdue, who became head of the agency last week, announced he would be relaxing guidelines and providing greater flexibility in nutrition requirements for schools’ meal programs. “ This announcement is the result of years of feedback from students, schools and food service experts about the challenges they are facing in meeting the final regulations for school meals,” Perdue said during a visit to Catoctin Elementary School in Leesburg, Va.“ If kids aren’t eating the food, and it’s ending up in the trash, they aren’t getting any nutrition — thus undermining the intent of the program,” said Perdue, who was accompanied by Sen. Pat Roberts ( R- Kan.) and Patricia Montague of the School Nutrition Assn. Under the changes to the federal nutrition standards, schools won’t have to cut salt in meals, states will be able to allow some schools to serve fewer whole grains, and schools will be allowed to serve 1% milk rather than only nonfat milk. Advocates for change on school lunch nutrition have said it’s difficult to meet rules set under the Obama administration.“ We have been wanting flexibility so that schools can serve meals that are both nutritious and palatable,” Montague said during Monday’s announcement. “ We don’t want kids wasting their meals by throwing them away. Some of our schools are actually using that food waste as compost. That shouldn’t be happening.” The Obama administration placed standards on school lunch nutrition in 2010 when it passed the Healthy, Hunger- Free Kids Act. During that time, Michelle Obama was seen by many as a leading advocate in the fight against childhood obesity. She started the Let’s Move! campaign, which sought to encourage children to take part in more physical activity and help provide healthier food options in schools in under-served communities. The percentage of U. S. children with obesity has more than tripled since the 1970s, causing long-term physical and emotional distress for children, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Children with obesity are at higher risk for having asthma and Type 2 diabetes. Many are bullied and, as a result, are likely to suffer from depression and self-esteem issues. In 2014, the standards were met with challenges in Congress led by the School Nutrition Assn., which has called the regulations too rigid, and House Republicans who supported the powerful lobbying group’s efforts. But according to the Department of Agriculture, 97% of schools across the country are implementing the school nutrition standards set by the Healthy, Hunger- Free Kids Act. The changes announced Monday are seen by some as undermining a bipartisan breakthrough.“ Michelle Obama started a conversation with every mom and dad in America on what they were feeding their kids in a way that didn’t cast judgment,” said Scott Faber, senior vice president from the Environmental Working Group, which specializes in research and advocacy.“ Nothing will change that legacy, but unfortunately today’s actions will delay and undermine Obama’s food policy legacy,” he said. Politicians and public health advocates have also criticized the rollbacks. Reps. Rosa De Lauro ( D- Conn.) and Jim Mc Govern ( D- Mass.) condemned the Trump administration’s change to nutrition standards for school meals across the country.“ Just days into his new job as Secretary of USDA, Secretary Perdue has decided to put special interests ahead of the health of America’s children,” De Lauro said in a statement.“ The USDA and President Trump have now decided to roll back much of the progress we have made in the fight against rates of childhood obesity and malnutrition,” De Lauro said. “ This interim final rule by the USDA is a slippery slope that will completely undermine school breakfast and lunch programs and the USDA should immediately reverse course.” Mc Govern said the country should build on the progress made rather than “turn our backs” on youths who rely on the meals.“ This isn’t about flexibility; it’s about making kids less healthy,” Mc Govern said. “ Just because President Trump thinks fast food is a balanced meal doesn’t mean we should lower our standards for our kids.” The Alliance for a Healthier Generation has worked with more than 35,000 schools to reduce the prevalence of childhood obesity.“ We would not lower standards for reading, writing and arithmetic just because students found them challenging subjects and we should not do it for school nutrition either,” Howell Wechsler, the organization’s chief executive, said in a statement.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-may-day-protests-20170501-story.html
May Day rallies across the nation Jenny Jarvie / Los Angeles Times Aline Mello, 28, and Diana Chavez, 29, huddle outside Atlanta's City Hall for Monday's May Day rally for immigrants. Aline Mello, 28, and Diana Chavez, 29, huddle outside Atlanta's City Hall for Monday's May Day rally for immigrants. ( Jenny Jarvie / Los Angeles Times) Portland police said Monday that numerous arrests have been made during May Day protests in their city, including three people arrested near Pioneer Square. Police asked everyone to stay away from downtown as fires were being reported and fireworks, smoke bombs and Molotov cocktails were being thrown at police. There was no immediate information on whether anyone was injured. Thousands of people took to the streets across the nation Monday to march in May Day rallies, calling for immigration reform, workers’ rights and police accountability. Galvanized by President Trump’s initiatives on immigrants in the country illegally, diverse crowds of demonstrators held peaceful rallies in cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago, New York City and Miami. In Atlanta, about 200 rallied under gloomy skies holding “ ICE Get Out” banners and “ Not One More Deportaton” placards to protest recent arrests and deportations by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, and to call on Atlanta officials to extend more protections to immigrants. Aline Mello, a 28-year-old from Brazil, was among those at Atlanta’s City Hall for a May Day rally. Mello is a so-called Dreamer who received protection under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Not long after Mello , arrived for the rally, she texted her mom a photo of herself huddling under a pink umbrella and holding a sign saying, “ We are Humans.” Many demonstrators said they were concerned about Trump administration attempts at immigration initiatives such as building a wall along the Mexico- U. S. border, enforcing a so-called travel ban on people from several Muslim-majority countries and threatening to withhold federal funds from municipalities considered “sanctuary cities.” Outside City Hall, immigrant advocates linked up with a wide range of social justice groups fighting to raise the minimum wage, combat racism and sexism, and protect LGBTQ communities.‘’ We want Atlanta to be a real sanctuary city, not just a welcoming city,” Carlos Medina, a volunteer with the Georgia Latino Alliance for Human Rights, told the crowd. “ We want a fair salary: $15. We want the people to respect gender identity. And we want them to stop the deportations.” After the rally, more than a hundred immigration and social justice advocates spilled into Atlanta’s City Council chamber to demand that the city raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour and that the city comply with Immigration and Customs Enforcement requests to detain immigrants only when officials have a warrant. Immigrant rights groups and labor unions organized multiple rallies across New York City, culminating Monday evening at Foley Square in what organizers said would be the city’s biggest planned rally for May Day.  Michael Bellamy was among those demonstrating in Union Square on Monday afternoon. “ We are showing how U. S. policies throughout history have created refugees and hurt people, and we want to celebrate those who work,” he said. Earlier Monday, about 500 people rallied outside Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Manhattan. Twelve people were arrested for civil disobedience, said Jose Lopez of the immigrant advocacy group Make the Road, after protesters blocked the entrance to JPMorgan for about 10 minutes.“ We wanted to identify and name a number of corporate players who stand to profit from Trump’s agenda and immigration detention,” Lopez said. “ On Monday, we hit the streets and went after the first corporate target on the list.” In Chicago, Jorge Mujica, an organizer at Arise Chicago, said hundreds of people had gathered a few hours early in anticipation of the march from Union Park to Daley Plaza. This year’s May Day, he said, felt different from previous years.“ Before we were not successful in pulling in other communities to join us,” Mujica said. “ But Trump has united us.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-me-betsy-devos-visit-los-angeles-20170428-story.html
Betsy De Vos scheduled, then canceled, a visit to an L. A. charter school that emphasizes special needs - LA Times Betsy De Vos scheduled, then canceled, a visit to an L. A. charter school that emphasizes special needs Betsy De Vos approved as education secretary Erik Lesser / European Pressphoto Agency Donald Trump's pick for secretary of Education, Betsy De Vos, is shown during her confirmation hearing. Donald Trump's pick for secretary of Education, Betsy De Vos, is shown during her confirmation hearing. ( Erik Lesser / European Pressphoto Agency) The news spread quickly among the parents of the CHIME Institute's Schwarzenegger Community School. They had received no official notice, but they picked up the reports that Betsy De Vos — Donald Trump’s secretary of Education, whose confirmation many of them had opposed — planned to visit their Woodland Hills school on Monday when May Day marches were planned in downtown L. A. and elsewhere. Shortly after parents began posting about the visit in a Facebook group, some began planning protests, as did at least one outside group. But by late Sunday afternoon, federal officials, citing scheduling issues, said De Vos would no longer come. Parents received a robocall confirming as much — their first word from the school on the visit. “ I did not want to provide any information until I was absolutely sure,” CHIME’s executive director, Erin Studer, told them. Parents’ reactions were complicated, as has often been the case as De Vos makes herself known to America’s schools. On her first visit to a public school in Washington, D. C., protesters all but chased her off the premises — though she eventually made her way into the campus. Meanwhile, embarrassing video of her reception made the rounds on the Internet. CHIME is a charter school that focuses on integrating students with special needs into academic and social life. Special education was a particularly weak point for De Vos during her confirmation hearing, which wasn’t lost on parents.“ Trusting that she would understand all the minutiae and complexities of special education was really scary to me,” said CHIME parent Dawn Hamilton. But Rose Beemer, who has several children at CHIME, said that though she was initially surprised that the school would host De Vos, she wound up posting a statement in support of the visit, because “ I did see the opportunity as a wonderful one for the school to gain attention.” One of her children is on the autism spectrum, she said, and has learned language and made friends since starting at CHIME. Some parents were worried about the effect that media coverage and possible protests would have on CHIME’s students, particularly those who are sensitive to noise. But they also saw how the publicity could help them.“ I went back and forth between concern and mild horror to then thinking OK, it would be great to share our school,” Hamilton said. She said her daughter Emerson, who has cerebral palsy, is receiving all of her therapies and services within the classroom, leading to a more inclusive experience. When De Vos canceled, Hamilton was relieved, but also disappointed that “this was a missed opportunity to educate” De Vos. Four parents interviewed by The Times said they assumed the visit was called off out of fear of protests — though protesters are more or less a constant for De Vos. Her press secretary, Elizabeth Hill, insisted a scheduling conflict was to blame, though she would not specify what it was. “ The visit just no longer worked for the schedule,” she said. On Monday morning, parents dropping off their children noted the presence of several police cars. Other than that, they said, it was a typical Monday morning.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-congress-shrinking-priorities-20170501-story.html
LA 90: Trump's first big bipartisan win President Trump has struggled to get things done, despite Republicans holding the majority. ( May 2, 2017)   President Trump has struggled to get things done, despite Republicans holding the majority. ( May 2, 2017)   Congress is on track to deliver President Trump his first big bipartisan agreement this week with a $1-trillion spending bill to keep government running, but don’t expect other major legislative accomplishments any time soon. Even though Republicans control the House, Senate and White House, the party in power is now at risk of squandering the unique opportunity offered in an administration’s early months to muscle through big-ticket priorities in Congress. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) once promised a Republican agenda so ambitious — repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, overhaul the tax code, cut federal regulations — it would take twice the traditional 100 days of the new administration to accomplish it. But as Congress begins the march toward Ryan’s 200-day milestone, the prospect for success on almost any of the major Republican priorities is no more in sight than in the first 100 days, which left Trump with only a slim list of achievements.“ It’s really hard to do big stuff, especially when the White House is unpopular,” said George Washington University professor Sarah Binder, an expert on Congress. This week will be pivotal as Congress is set to approve the spending package, which averts a shutdown threat by funding government operations until September. Trump's 'big beautiful wall' is not in the spending plan. Will it ever get built? Noah Bierman and Brian Bennett “ Mark my words,” Donald Trump said when he announced he was running for president nearly two years ago. He would build a wall on the southwest border, and Mexico would pay for it. That promise, the most indelible aspect of Trump’s political branding, has endured. It still generates some of the... “ Mark my words,” Donald Trump said when he announced he was running for president nearly two years ago. He would build a wall on the southwest border, and Mexico would pay for it. That promise, the most indelible aspect of Trump’s political branding, has endured. It still generates some of the... ( Noah Bierman and Brian Bennett) House Republicans may also try again to bring their Obamacare overhaul bill to the floor after earlier attempts fizzled. But it’s unclear whether they have the support of their own members, and the bill has almost no chance in the Senate because fellow Republicans there oppose it. The toxic combination of Republican infighting, the White House’s failure to provide clear direction and an over-ambitious agenda have hobbled the majority’s ability to accomplish its goals. With the healthcare effort floundering and tax reform still likely months from being crafted into legislation, congressional Republicans have teed up few other promised priorities, such as infrastructure or border security. It raises questions of what, if anything, Congress can accomplish before the summer recess. Congress has sent more than 28 bills to the president’s desk to sign into law. Most were modest measures or bills passed under a special process to unwind recent Obama-era regulations. Business groups have heralded the rapid deregulatory effort, which was one of Republicans’ top promises. But the window for using that special process, which permitted bills to pass with a simple majority in the Senate rather than the usual 60 votes to avoid filibuster, is about to close, meaning the job going forward will be harder without bipartisan support. The spending package is likely to win backing from a wide cross section of lawmakers, in part because it steered clear of Trump’s top priorities — money for the border wall with Mexico and steep cuts to non-defense programs. It beefs up military spending that both parties support, but only by half as much as the administration wanted. Congress will likely finish the week having averted a shutdown — usually seen as the basics of governing — only because Republicans in this case were forced to drop their go-it-alone approach.“ I hope this is a metaphor for the future,” Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer ( D- N. Y.) told reporters Monday. “ If Republicans work with us, we can get things done.” The first six months of a new Congress are typically prime time for legislating, even more so when the majority party also has its president in the White House. In 2009, President Obama set the course for what would become the most productive Congress since President Lyndon Johnson as Democrats controlled the White House and Congress. Then- House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and then- Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid used their congressional majority to usher through the economic recovery act during Obama’s first 30 days and set the groundwork for passage later that session of Obamacare. Stunned but impressed as the Democrats steamrolled their agenda through Congress, Republican leaders relied on a similar strategy to win back the majority — telling voters they needed control of all levers of government to accomplish their to-do list. But the flaw in the GOP strategy has been its own inability to unify as a working majority amid constant dissent between its conservative and centrist factions. That friction helped stall the healthcare bill and could also hinder tax-reform negotiations.“ It’s been a total swing and a miss — several swings and misses,” Sen. Chris Van Hollen ( D- Md.) said. GOP lawmakers are reminded of the stakes at play when they show up back home empty-handed to face constituents who voted them to office on the power of big changes. Rep. Dave Brat ( R- Va.), a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, acknowledged that Republicans should have been better prepared for this moment. But he remained hopeful that Trump, with his convention-breaking style, will buy more time for Congress to act.“ Under the old-style thing, you should have had it all ready to go,” Brat said. “ But you got to fit it in the Trump matrix.” At some point, Republican leaders in Congress will bear responsibility for its accomplishments, or lack of them. Pelosi’s office quipped last week that running the country doesn’t come with “training wheels.” When Democrats had control, Pelosi and Reid were seasoned dealmakers who helped steer the White House toward legislative lifts — relying on Obama to use the power of the pulpit to amplify the party’s positions. In contrast, many Republicans simply did not expect Trump to actually win the presidency, and did not prepare for their legislative agenda beyond loose policy papers and blueprints. Ryan brings less negotiating experience to the bargaining table, and his counterpart, Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell, prefers working more quietly behind the scenes. Trump meanwhile has shown little appetite for delving into the details of legislation or aggressively selling such measures on the stump, as other presidents have done. Republicans are likely to set their sights lower, on smaller legislative lifts in the weeks to come, if the big-ticket items slip beyond reach. Binder noted that previous Congresses have emerged from the start of a new, same-party administration with mixed results. With a productive session, President Clinton was able to recover after the rocky start of his failed healthcare overhaul and an unsuccessful attempt to end the ban on gays in the military. By contrast, President Carter, whose attempts to reform what he saw as pork-barrel projects and Washington waste alienated many in his own party, never quite recouped from his opening days. Congress stalled much of Trump’s agenda in what Binder said “is probably the closest analogy we have of unified party control being a bust.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-wall-20170501-story.html
U. S.- Mexico border wall Astrid Galvan / AP The U. S.- Mexico border wall in Nogales, Ariz. The U. S.- Mexico border wall in Nogales, Ariz. ( Astrid Galvan / AP) “ Mark my words,” Donald Trump said when he announced he was running for president nearly two years ago. He would build a wall on the southwest border, and Mexico would pay for it. That promise, the most indelible aspect of Trump’s political branding, has endured. It still generates some of the loudest applause during Trump’s speeches, as it did at a weekend rally to mark his first 100 days in office. But over the past week, Trump gave up on pushing Congress to include the billions needed for the wall in the spending plan that lawmakers expect to pass this week. There is little sign that Mexico will be compelled to pay for it, as Trump has so often vowed. And administration allies are increasingly trying to redefine “the wall” as something other than what Trump described in the campaign. The wall may be the perfect metaphor for Trump’s administration so far: It remains a White House priority. Trump’s harsh rhetoric about it has probably helped stem the flow of illegal border crossings, stirring widespread fear in immigrant communities. But the physical wall itself remains very much in doubt, in part because members of Trump’s party seem unwilling to pay for it and members of his administration do not think it is completely necessary." It is clearly a defeat for the president" for the money not to be in the current spending bill, said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank in Washington, D. C., that advocates for reducing immigration levels. “ At a minimum there’s no appetite for it,” said Angela Kelley, a senior strategic advisor for immigration at Open Society Policy Center, which favors looser immigration restrictions. “ That could grow into an allergic reaction.” The $1-trillion deal to keep the government open through September, agreed to by the White House and congressional leaders late Sunday, does not include money for new fencing or new border agents requested by the Trump administration. It does include $1.5 billion for border security, a concession Democrats might not have made without the pressure from Trump on border spending. But that money is allocated for technology and maintenance of existing infrastructure at the border. The most notable new barrier in the spending plan: $50 million to upgrade the fence around the White House, requested after a wave of intruders began hopping the existing fence during the Obama administration. Sean Spicer, Trump’s press secretary, said the border security money in the spending plan could help with planning, technology and other preliminary aspects of the wall. He promised that Trump would push for more when he gets a chance to negotiate the 2018 spending bill, his first full-year spending plan.“ This is a down payment on border security,” Spicer said. But Republicans in Congress, their spokespeople and even administration officials these days often define the wall as a catch-all for border security, rather than a permanent physical structure.“ There are places where a permanent physical barrier, a wall makes sense,” said Michael Steel, a former GOP leadership aide. “ There are other places where it’s less practical and there are other options. But the overall goal remains the same.” Trump’s own homeland security secretary, John F. Kelly, offered a similar assessment in April.“ It's unlikely that we will build a wall or physical barrier from sea to shining sea,” he testified before the Senate Homeland Security Committee. Under questioning from Sen. John Mc Cain ( R- Ariz.), he agreed that the wall could be interpreted as a combination of drones, towers, fences, technology to detect tunnels and other electronic means combined with border guards. “ The wall is all of that,” he said. That approach would mirror policies pursued by Trump’s predecessors and would roughly follow the strategy advocated by officials at the Border Patrol union, who have said, for example, that fences are often preferable to solid walls because they are harder to hide behind. Even Trump allowed during a speech in Georgia on Friday that the wall would be “in certain areas,” a departure from his long-held description of a solid uninterrupted barrier that would grow higher by a few feet every time he was doubted.“ Obviously, where you have these massive physical structures you don't need — and we have certain big rivers and all,” Trump added, cryptically. Official cost estimates for a wall vary widely — from $12 billion to $38 billion, all the way to a nearly $70 billion estimate by Senate Democrats. Although popular among Trump’s supporters, the wall has never been a top priority for hard-line immigration policy advocates, who argue that a combination of changes, including tougher internal enforcement, would do more to stem illegal immigration. Nor do most Americans expect Trump to actually build it, surveys indicate. In a You Gov poll conducted last week, 51% of adults said they did not think Trump would build a wall, while only 29% said he was likely to accomplish that goal. The share of adults in the poll who said Trump would likely not achieve the goal was higher than for any of the campaign promises You Gov asked about. But there is tension between broad public opinion and Trump’s supporters. Republicans in the You Gov poll were far more likely to believe the wall would get built. And other polls, which show only about 30% to 40% of Americans want a wall built, show much greater support among Republicans, especially conservatives.“ I don’t know that they care whether it’s a Chinese wall,” said former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has advised Trump. “... They saw it as a symbolic statement that he was going to [crack down on] people crossing into the United States illegally.” Gingrich said those counting out Trump’s ability to pressure Congress for more wall funding suffer from “historical amnesia” that presidents sometimes need time to win their initiatives and “the desire to minimize Trump because he didn’t get it by waving a magic wand.” Trump’s harsh rhetoric and a handful of enforcement changes have helped reduce illegal border crossings without a new barrier. U. S. Customs and Border Protection reported that 16,600 people were apprehended and deemed inadmissible at the southern border in March, a 64% decrease from the same month in 2016. Trump has celebrated that victory, but is wary of resting on it.“ You know, we have done so well at the border, a lot of people are saying, ‘ Oh, wow, maybe the president doesn't need the wall,’ ” Trump told the raucous crowd at his 100-day rally in Harrisburg, Pa., on Saturday night. " We need the wall to stop the drugs and the human trafficking. We need the wall." Trump, who feeds off his crowds’ enthusiasm, appeared to veer off script as the audience grew louder. " We will build a wall, folks, don't even worry about it,” he said. “ Go to sleep. Go home, go to sleep, rest assured." Even as Trump talks up the wall, the ground beneath it has shifted. On Saturday, he did not ask, “ Who’s going to pay for it,” once a signature line at his campaign rallies that prompted the crowd to chant “ Mexico” in unison. The Mexican government, which sees the wall as an insult, has insisted it would never entertain funding it, and Trump has not offered a plan that would force the issue. To pass the spending bill, Trump needed Democrats, both in the Senate where Republicans hold a narrow majority and in the House where hard-line conservatives often vote against spending bills regardless of which party crafts them. Those dynamics will surely continue and could grow even thornier. Advocates on both sides of the immigration debate predicted that Democrats’ victory on the latest spending bill will embolden them to demand more in future negotiations. Indeed, some Democrats were openly gloating Monday.“ If Congress refuses to fund your stupid wall during your honeymoon period, what makes you think we will ever fund it?” tweeted Rep. Ted Lieu ( D- Torrance). Trump allies argue that increases the urgency of nailing down the money quickly." It is essential he wins this,” said Krikorian. “ Even if the wall did nothing, it would be important to get it through, because it is so essential to the message of controlling immigration."
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-court-cities-banks-foreclosure-20170501-story.html
Supreme Court clears the way for cities, including L. A., to sue banks over foreclosure crisis - LA Times FILE - In this April 26, 2014 file photo, people walk on the steps of the U. S. Supreme Court in Wash Jacquelyn Martin / Associated Press The Supreme Court ruling means cities can sue major banks for discriminatory lending practices that hurt low-income neighborhoods during the Great Recession. The Supreme Court ruling means cities can sue major banks for discriminatory lending practices that hurt low-income neighborhoods during the Great Recession. ( Jacquelyn Martin / Associated Press) The Supreme Court expanded the reach of federal housing law Monday, ruling that cities — including Los Angeles — can sue major banks for discriminatory lending practices that hurt low-income neighborhoods during the Great Recession. The decision gives city leaders a potentially powerful weapon against lenders, including those who were accused of predatory practices that triggered the foreclosure crisis after 2008. Until now, these legal claims faced an apparent obstacle. The Fair Housing Act forbids racial discrimination against “any person.” Lawyers for the banks said the law protected only people who suffered discrimination, not cities. But by a 5-3 vote, the justices said cities can be an “aggrieved person” who can sue over the impact of housing discrimination on the city’s finances. Justice Stephen G. Breyer cited rulings from the 1970s that interpreted the civil rights law broadly, including by allowing city officials to sue real estate agents who were turning away black and Latino home buyers. Monday’s decision cleared the way for the city of Miami to sue Bank of America over allegations that it “intentionally targeted predatory practices at African American and Latino neighborhoods,” which in turn led to “foreclosures and vacancies” that sharply reduced property tax revenues. Lawyers for the banks had appealed, arguing the suits should be tossed out. But the high court disagreed.“ We conclude that the city’s financial injuries fall within the zone of interests that the Fair Housing Act protects,” Breyer said in an opinion that was joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. The city attorneys for Los Angeles and San Francisco had told the court they had lodged similar suits against the banks. But Monday’s ruling was only a partial victory for the cities. The justices said they were not convinced that discriminatory lending “caused” the city’s loss in property tax revenues. It is true, Breyer said, the housing market “causes ripples” to flow through the city’s economy. But for the city to win damages, it must show some “direct relation” between the alleged predatory lending and its effect on the city’s coffers. The justices sent that issue back to a lower court to be reconsidered. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined Breyer and Roberts in the majority. Justices Clarence Thomas, Anthony M. Kennedy and Samuel A. Alito Jr. said the suit should have been tossed out. Thomas said the anti-bias law should be limited to people who have been the victims of discrimination, not cities complaining about the impact of housing bias. Civil rights lawyers had joined the case on the city’s side and applauded the ruling.“ With this decision, the Supreme Court has acknowledged the crucial role of municipal governments in protecting residents’ rights,” said Dennis Parker, director of the ACLU’s racial justice program. “ In housing and lending as in other areas, cities can and should serve as a bulwark against discrimination.” Daniella Casseres, a housing lawyer in New York, said the court’s ruling “gives local authorities a very powerful tool to continue defending against lending discrimination in a political environment where federal enforcement may soon be curbed.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fg-pol-haley-un-20170501-story.html
As Trump's voice at the U. N., Nikki Haley has handled hecklers and differences with her boss - LA Times Nikki Haley with President Trump AFP/ Getty Images Ambassador to the U. N. Nikki Haley smiles as President Trump speaks before a working lunch April 24 with U. N. Security Council members at the White House. He said she was doing a "fantastic job." Ambassador to the U. N. Nikki Haley smiles as President Trump speaks before a working lunch April 24 with U. N. Security Council members at the White House. He said she was doing a "fantastic job." ( AFP/ Getty Images) Almost from the moment U. S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley took the stage at a recent women’s conference in liberal Manhattan, jeers and boos erupted. Haley flashed the crowd a smile, sitting with her hands folded in her lap. She had come straight from the U. N., where she had spoken emotionally about the poison gas attack in Syria that killed scores of civilians, the latest horror in the country’s civil war. “ America leading,” she said, “is what we are trying to do.” MSNBC anchor Greta Van Susteren pressed Haley on the multiple investigations into whether President Trump’s current or former aides colluded with Russia during the 2016 campaign. As Haley tried to answer, a heckler interrupted, “ What about refugees?’’ It was the kind of crossfire that Haley, 45, has faced repeatedly since she resigned in January as a widely respected governor of South Carolina to join Trump’s team. Since then, she has become a high-profile voice on U. S. foreign policy, at times eclipsing Trump’s taciturn secretary of State, Rex Tillerson. Haley’s nomination had been a surprise and not only because she had no diplomatic experience: She had endorsed Trump’s rivals during the GOP primaries last year, and he tweeted in response that she had “embarrassed” her state. Haley already had been on the short list of rising GOP stars with a possible national future. Unlike many potential rivals, her role at the U. N. will keep her in the public eye, for better or worse, in the Trump administration. Unlike some of her predecessors at the U. N., Haley often displays a down-home charm that reveals her Southern upbringing, peppering her comments with “gonnas” and “wannas.”“ And what we're gonna say is it's just not gonna work,” she told CBS News when asked about North Korea’s threats about using military force. As a diplomat, however, Haley has been as contrarian as the president she represents. In her debut speech at the U. N., she warned allies and rivals that they would “see a change in the way we do business.”“ For those who don’t have our back,” she added, “we’re taking names.” But she also has voiced more concern for human rights abuses than the White House, penning a column that said ignoring the issue leads to “a vicious cycle of violence and instability.” She even has appeared to contradict, or at least politely correct, the president. A day after Trump seemed to jettison decades of U. S. policy and dismiss the possibility of a future Palestinian state, for example, Haley said at the U. N. that the administration “absolutely” supported a two-state solution with an independent Palestinian nation. Her relations with Trump are difficult to read. On April 24, three weeks after the Manhattan event, Haley sat at the president’s side at an ornate table in the White House with ambassadors representing the 14 other nations in the U. N. Security Council. Trump initially scolded the ambassadors for diplomatic failures in North Korea and Syria, and branded the U. N. an “underperformer.” He then turned toward Haley, who sat beside him.“ Does everybody like Nikki?" he asked his guests. “ Otherwise, she can easily be replaced." Awkward laughter followed until Trump finally added, “ She’s doing a fantastic job.” Madeleine Albright, who served as U. S. envoy to the U. N. from 1993 to 1997, thought the episode strengthened Haley’s hand in diplomatic circles.“ It showed they have a personal relationship, that he can kid her like that,” Albright said. “ She is seen as somebody who can … have influence” with Trump. Some historians liken Albright’s headline-grabbing tenure as U. S. ambassador to the U. N. under a low-key secretary of State, Warren Christopher, to Haley’s high-wattage tenure so far under Tillerson, who deliberately kept a low public profile until recently.“ It’s a delicate balancing act,” Albright said. The U. N. ambassador must explain U. S. policy to the world, but also keep an eye on reactions — and politics — in Washington. On Friday, Haley definitely took the back seat when Tillerson made his debut speech to foreign ministers at the U. N. Security Council to address the threat from North Korea. The daughter of Indian immigrants, Haley was born Nimrata Randhama in Bamberg, S. C., and later adopted her husband’s last name. She also converted from the Sikh faith to Christianity. After six years in the state Legislature, she became the first woman and the first person of color to win the governorship of South Carolina in 2010 — and then was reelected on a platform that was anti-tax and fiscally conservative. To this day, she wears a silver necklace with an image of the palmetto tree, symbol of her state. As governor, she voted for bills that restrict abortion. As the child of legal immigrants, she called for greater enforcement of immigration laws, a position that put her in sync with Trump. Haley’s response to the 2015 church massacre of black worshipers by a self-declared white supremacist put her in the national spotlight. As the state mourned, she deftly arranged the gradual removal of Confederate flags from state property, a still-sensitive issue for the state that fired the first shots of the Civil War.“ She is a very gifted politician,” said Jaime Harrison, chairman of the state Democratic Party, who noted that Haley had refused to commit to removing the flags when demands came up during her 2014 reelection race. Her political skills were tested at the Women in the World conference in Manhattan, where Trump clearly was not popular. Guffaws broke out when Haley complained that the Russians “just make things up,’’ a charge frequently leveled against Trump. Haley got her most enthusiastic response when she mentioned her predecessor at the U. N., Samantha Power, who had served under President Obama. Panelists at a later session ridiculed Haley after she left the stage. It was left to summit host Tina Brown, the magazine editor and author, to come to Haley’s defense.“ She sat there very graciously, very courageously while people heckled,” she said. “ She didn’t get agitated about it.’’
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-congress-budget-deal-20170430-story.html
Congressional negotiators reach $1-trillion deal to fund government but provide little for Trump's priorities The final deal failed to include the big cuts to domestic non-defense accounts that Trump was seeking.   The final deal failed to include the big cuts to domestic non-defense accounts that Trump was seeking.   Congressional negotiators reached a bipartisan deal late Sunday to fund the federal government through September, easing the threat of a shutdown but denying President Trump several key priorities — including money for his promised border wall with Mexico. The estimated $1-trillion omnibus package would provide $12.5 billion in increased military funding, about half the amount Trump requested from Congress. Another $2.5 billion for defense is available if the administration submits a counter-terrorism strategy to fight Islamic State. But the final deal failed to include the big cuts to domestic non-defense accounts that Trump was seeking, and thus emerged as something of an embarrassment to the White House in his first budget negotiation with Congress. It actually would increase federal spending on medical research, green energy programs and other areas that the White House had pegged for sharp reductions. Under it, the National Institutes of Health would see an increase of 6%, or $2 billion. Though the package does include $1.5 billion for border security, the money is expected to pay for technology and infrastructure repairs along the Southwest border, not more detention facilities or deportation officers. The legislation is also free of more than 160 policy riders intended to restrict abortion access, loosen financial regulations or serve other Republican priorities that could have doomed Democratic support. It notably would not cut money for Planned Parenthood, a White House target. Negotiators worked through the weekend to finish the deal, which was described by congressional aides. Lawmakers are expected to vote early this week, before stopgap funding expires Friday. Republicans were notably quiet as details became known Sunday, a day after Trump celebrated his first 100 days in office, while Democrats boasted that the deal shows the power they can leverage even as the Republican Party controls both houses of Congress and the White House. “ Early on in this debate, Democrats clearly laid out our principles,” said Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer ( D- N. Y.).“ This agreement is a good agreement for the American people, and takes the threat of a government shutdown off the table,” he added. “ The bill ensures taxpayer dollars aren’t used to fund an ineffective border wall, excludes poison pill riders, and increases investments in programs that the middle-class relies on, like medical research, education and infrastructure.” The top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Nita Lowey ( D- N. Y.), noted that $68 million was added "to reimburse law enforcement agencies for costs incurred helping to protect President Trump and the First Family,” including his adult children. Trump engineered the fiscal standoff shortly after he was elected, insisting late last year that Congress should fund the government for only a few months so he could put his stamp on federal spending as the new president. Most notably, he wanted money to start construction of the wall along the Southwest border that became his signature campaign issue, even though at the time he promised Mexico would pay for it. The White House plan quickly ran into opposition from Democrats and some Republicans over several priorities. Congressional Republicans are routinely forced to rely on Democratic support to pass spending bills because their own party typically cannot agree on federal funding levels. The most conservative Republicans often dissent. Most Democrats have been willing to increase funding for the military, especially to fight terrorism, but not at the level Trump wanted — and not at the expense of non-defense domestic programs. As negotiations dragged on, Trump only narrowly averted a government shutdown last week when existing funds ran out as he marked his first 100 days in office. Congress quickly approved a one-week temporary funding bill on Friday to allow talks to finish. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) called the final deal Sunday a “sharp contrast” to the administration’s wish list, noting the bill “does not fund President Trump's immoral and unwise border wall or create a cruel new deportation force.” The final deal includes several items that were being negotiated late last week, including permanent federal relief to prop up a coal miners pension fund for retiree healthcare. The bill also includes $295 million to help assist Puerto Rico’s struggling Medicaid program and $2 billion in disaster funding for several states, including California, West Virginia, Louisiana and North Carolina. There is $407 million for fighting wildfires in the West. Among the new domestic spending is $100 million to stem the opioid drug crisis, as well as money for infrastructure investments in Amtrak, particularly along its East Coast rail service. Both sides would like to put the threat of government shutdowns aside, especially as Republicans try to mark some legislative accomplishments under Trump after failing — twice — to garner enough votes in the House to bring a proposed replacement bill for Obamacare to the floor for a vote. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) can afford to lose only about two dozen votes from his ranks, but the final budget package is expected to draw wide support from Democrats. Earlier Sunday, Trump complained that his first 100 days in office taught him that Congress moves slowly, with “arcane” rules.“ In many cases you’re forced to make deals that are not the deal you’d make,” Trump said on CBS’ “ Face the Nation." “ You’d make a much different kind of deal.” Republicans have also been trying to revive their efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Democrats, who oppose undoing Obamacare, warned them last week not to link the two efforts. That dynamic will continue during the week ahead as Republicans want to fund the government but also tackle their other priorities, including the Obamacare repeal. If approved, the omnibus deal would fund the government through the end of the fiscal year, Sept. 30.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-next-challenges-20170430-story.html
LA 90: Trump calls for action on North Korea and tax reform President Trump gave mixed signals on North Korea, healthcare and tax reform. ( May 1, 2017)   President Trump gave mixed signals on North Korea, healthcare and tax reform. ( May 1, 2017)   President Trump pushed past his first tumultuous 100 days in office by calling for action Sunday on three of his administration’s top priorities — North Korea, healthcare and tax reform — but gave mixed signals on each of them. Trump described North Korea's mercurial leader Kim Jong Un as a “pretty smart cookie.” Undercutting a key campaign pledge, Trump suggested possible cuts to Medicare by curbing “abuses." And he declared that the top Democrat in the Senate, who has derided Trump’s tax proposal as a boon for the wealthy, was “making a fool of himself." Vice President Mike Pence separately acknowledged on NBC’s “ Meet the Press" that a sweeping White House proposal to slash individual and corporate tax rates would increase the national debt “maybe in the short term." The White House previously has argued that improved economic growth would pay for the loss of revenue. Critics have said the Trump tax blueprint could add trillions of dollars to the deficit if enacted. The day’s developments thus suggested little change from the head-snapping turmoil that marked the first part of Trump’s tenure. Senior aides scrambled in some cases Sunday to ease the sting of the president’s comments or even to contradict him. The president also courted fresh controversy when the White House announced late Saturday that Trump had made a “very friendly” call to President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines and had invited him to visit the White House. Since taking office in June, Duterte has presided over a bloody anti-drug crackdown that human right groups say has left more than 7,000 people dead in what appears a campaign of extrajudicial killings by police and unidentified death squads. Human rights activists angrily denounced the White House readout of Trump’s call, which noted blandly that Duterte was “fighting very hard to rid” his country of drugs. Critics said the White House was now morally complicit in the bloodshed. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, defended the invitation to Duterte, saying it did not signal White House approval for his methods in the drug war or a larger disdain for human rights.“ The purpose of this call is all about North Korea,” Priebus said on ABC’s “ This Week.” He said that Trump was trying to shore up alliances in Southeast Asia, and that Trump also spoke to the prime ministers of Singapore and Thailand on Sunday. Manila is about 1,800 miles from Pyongyang. It has no influence on Kim or on events on the Korean peninsula, so it's unclear how the Philippines would fit into a regional strategy for Northeast Asia. It was not the first time Trump's dealings with a foreign strongman have raised questions. Trump earlier in April hosted Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Sisi at the White House and praised him for doing a “fantastic job” despite his jailing of thousands of political opponents after he took power in a military coup. Also in April, Trump was alone among Western leaders in making a congratulatory phone call to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan after he claimed victory in a referendum that vastly enhanced presidential powers. Critics called the Turkish referendum, whose results have been disputed by the leading opposition party, a blow to democracy. Trump holds a 100-day rally on friendly turf, snubbing the White House Correspondents' Dinner Brian Bennett President Trump on Saturday skipped the White House Correspondents’ Dinner to mark his 100th day in office doing what got him there: taking his populist message directly to an adoring audience, this one in Pennsylvania, the state he credits with delivering his surprise electoral college win in... President Trump on Saturday skipped the White House Correspondents’ Dinner to mark his 100th day in office doing what got him there: taking his populist message directly to an adoring audience, this one in Pennsylvania, the state he credits with delivering his surprise electoral college win in... ( Brian Bennett) Trump, who spent Sunday at the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Va., had celebrated Saturday’s 100-day milestone with a full-throated attack on the news media and other perceived enemies at a raucous nighttime rally in Harrisburg, Pa. The president had skipped the annual White House correspondents’ dinner, long a presidential staple. Surrounded by his wildly cheering supporters, Trump mocked the black-tie event as Washington and Hollywood elitists “consoling themselves” over the loss of the 2016 election. On North Korea, Trump said in an interview with CBS’ “ Face the Nation” that he didn’t know whether he would authorize military action if Pyongyang conducted a sixth nuclear test, as is widely expected." I don’t know,” he said when asked if he would order a military response. “ I mean, we’ll see." The president appeared to offer grudging praise for North Korea’s leader, noting that Kim took over when he was 26 or 27 after his father died and has consolidated power despite challenges from several members of his family." A lot of people, I'm sure, tried to take that power away," he said. " And he was able to do it. So obviously, he's a pretty smart cookie." Trump rattled South Korea last week when he said in at least two interviews that the government in Seoul, one of America’s closest allies, should pay $1 billion for a sophisticated missile defense system that the U. S. has begun installing in the country. The Terminal High- Altitude Area Defense system, or THAAD, is intended to become operational within a matter of days, the Pentagon has said. Despite Trump’s comments, the White House national security advisor, H. R. Mc Master, sought to reassure Seoul that Washington would not try to make South Korea pay for the anti-missile batteries, according to South Korea’s presidential office. Mc Master confirmed Sunday that was the case — for now.“ What I told our South Korean counterpart is that until any renegotiation, that the deal’s in place, we’ll adhere to our word,” Mc Master said on “ Fox News Sunday.” Senior administration officials often have been forced to walk back Trump’s more provocative comments, especially on foreign affairs, without seeming to directly contradict the president. In this instance, Mc Master sought to put Trump’s comments in the context of looking at “appropriate burden-sharing” across all U. S. alliances. On healthcare, Trump brushed aside the failure last week — the second — to bring a repeal of the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, to the House floor, something he had pledged to accomplish early in his tenure. Republicans have been unable to fully agree on the provisions of the complex legislation, and Trump probably caused the GOP leadership additional headaches when he leaped into the fray with a pledge that insurers would be required to offer coverage to consumers with preexisting health problems. A GOP compromise plan would have allowed states to opt out of that requirement, a cornerstone of Obamacare. “ This bill has evolved,” Trump told CBS interviewer John Dickerson, adding that “now we have preexisting conditions in the bill” nationwide.“ Preexisting is going to be in there,” the president added. Trump also appeared to hedge on what had been an ironclad campaign tenet: that he would not cut Medicare.“ The concept of Medicare, I’m not touching,” he said, but added: “ Waste, fraud and abuse … if there are things within Medicare that are being abused, I will touch that.” Tax reform has been another area in which Trump has longed for a high-profile win. In the CBS interview, the president was dismissive of calls from some in Congress to condition tax reform on the release of the president’s income taxes. The president has ridiculed Democrats’ stance on the issue, singling out Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer ( D- N. Y.).“ They don’t have the presidency, they don’t have the House, they don’t have the Senate," Trump said Sunday. “ And Schumer’s going around making a fool out of himself.” Schumer, appearing on “ Fox News Sunday,” said his advice to Trump would be that “name-calling doesn’t work.”“ If he changes, we could work together,” he said of the president. “ But he can’t just dictate what he wants, not talk to us and say, ‘ You must support it.’”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-fg-pol-trump-overseas-20170504-story.html
First overseas foray for Trump will take him to sensitive turf: Saudi Arabia, Israel and the Vatican - LA Times President Trump Associated Press President Donald Trump gestures to a group of religious leaders and others in the Rose Garden at the White House on May 4, 2017, before signing an executive order aimed at easing an IRS rule limiting political activity for churches. President Donald Trump gestures to a group of religious leaders and others in the Rose Garden at the White House on May 4, 2017, before signing an executive order aimed at easing an IRS rule limiting political activity for churches. ( Associated Press) For his first trip abroad as president, Donald Trump later this month will venture into some highly sensitive geopolitical regions, taking on an itinerary that might test even the most adroitly diplomatic of leaders. He will start in the stridently conservative Sunni Islamic kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where the most revered sites in Islam are located. From there, he heads straight to Israel, still diplomatically ostracized by much of the Arab world. In Israel and in the Palestinian territories, he will have to deftly balance the conflicting interests of both sides as he seeks to revive peace negotiations. When treading such turf, protocol matters greatly, and an errant word — or tweet — can have major repercussions. For a leader like Trump, often given to impulsive, off-the-cuff statements, that could be a challenge. Next comes a stop at the Vatican to meet Pope Francis, whom Trump last year called “disgraceful” for challenging the then-candidate’s pledge to build a wall along the U. S. border with Mexico. Finally, Trump attends a top-level gathering of NATO, which he once deemed obsolete before reversing himself, and meets with leaders of the European Union, whose potential disintegration he has applauded. Since foreign travel by a sitting U. S. president became routine, most went abroad quickly after taking office — even if only as far as Mexico or Canada. The last president not to leave the United States in his first 100 days was Jimmy Carter, who waited until May to visit Britain for an economic summit. President Obama had traveled to nine nations by the time his first four months had elapsed. Initially it appeared Trump’s first trip would be brief, to Belgium and Italy for back-to-back meetings of NATO and G-7 leaders, respectively. But behind the scenes, some of the president’s top aides — including son-in-law and senior advisor Jared Kushner — were planning a more robust itinerary intended to send a message about the kind of leadership Trump would show on the world stage. And the president took the rare step of announcing his travel plans publicly himself, in the Rose Garden on Thursday at an event with religious leaders.“ America can be first but still be a global leader,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a later briefing with reporters. “ America has to be a global leader.” Three administration officials, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity to discuss travel aims, said the overarching goal of the trip was to demonstrate an America “regaining strategic confidence” in the world.“ American leadership has a lot to do with the ability to combine diplomacy with economic strength, the ability to communicate effectively, and to build relationships with leaders and with peoples,” one of the officials said. “ It also has a lot to do with the willingness to use military force when it’s necessary.” In some respects, the Saudi and Israeli stopovers may be quite comfortable territory for Trump. For one, both are states with extremely high levels of security and can easily keep any protests at bay. In all likelihood, nowhere outside the United States will Trump be better received than in Israel, given his support for the conservative government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Netanyahu, who visibly disdained Trump’s predecessor Barack Obama, can be expected to welcome the new president like a long-lost relative. One of Netanyahu’s chief financial backers and a big investor in Israel, American business tycoon Sheldon Adelson, is also a major supporter of Trump. . A high-profile first stop in Saudi Arabia, a theocracy whose record on human rights and treatment of women often comes under sharp international criticism, was an unusual choice for a U. S. leader. But there, too, officials felt estranged from Obama and eager to host a new American president. Discussions with the oil-rich kingdom’s leadership began shortly after the election, initiated by the Saudis with a goal of starting “a new relationship with America,” a senior administration official said. Those talks ultimately led to plans for a summit between the president and Muslim leaders focused on how to defeat Islamic State and confront the larger threat of radicalization. Trump could face a backlash, however, from conservative supporters who note that Saudi Arabia is actually a wellspring of the brand of radical Islamic ideology embraced by some terrorist organizations, and the homeland of most of the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. Trump “recognizes the importance of bringing all of our partners together, and certainly looking for ways that we can combat some of the greatest threats to all of the world,” Sanders said. “ And that’s going to take some buy-in, and some of the people in the Middle East taking a larger stake in that process.” The most awkward stop is likely to be the Vatican. Trump met Thursday with a delegation of Roman Catholic cardinals and other church leaders, and may have been briefed on papal protocol. Francis has implicitly criticized Trump’s hostile views toward Mexicans and immigrants, and especially his pledge to build a massive wall separating the United States and Mexico. " A person who only thinks about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian," the pontiff said in February 2016 — a view he repeated after the president’s inauguration. Then-candidate Trump shot back in terms a politician has rarely used about a pope." For a religious leader to question a person's faith is disgraceful," Trump said, calling himself a “good Christian.” But even beyond that exchange, the pontiff and the president could not be more different. Francis, a Jesuit from Argentina, has made concern for the environment and charity toward the poor the cornerstones of his papacy. Popes, by tradition, meet with any world leader who requests it, no matter how diametrically opposed their philosophies and temperaments might be. Overall, though, the multi-country trip should go fairly well for Trump because at the end of the day, other nations want to have good relations with the U. S., said Ian Bremmer, a political scientist and president of the analytical Eurasia Group in Washington. Because world leaders generally need Washington more than a U. S. president needs them, “that asymmetry makes it easier,” he said. Trump has said he does not like to travel, and since becoming president, his only overnight trips away from the White House have been to his own U. S. properties. During the campaign, he went once to Scotland, to inaugurate one of his golf clubs, and then made what by most accounts was a highly tense trip to Mexico. There, he met with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and agreed, according to sources, not to publicly insist that Mexico would pay for the wall — then tweeted as he flew out of Mexico City that Mexico really would pay for the wall. In addition, he took charge of a short news conference at the Mexican equivalent of the White House, leaving a stunned and helpless Peña Nieto at his side as he called only on U. S. reporters. Peña Nieto’s approval rating plummeted in the wake of the trip, and relations between the two allied nations were set on a still-bumpy course..
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-religious-order-20170504-story.html
President Trump Evan Vucci / Associated Press President Trump signs an executive order aimed at easing an IRS rule limiting political activity for churches. President Trump signs an executive order aimed at easing an IRS rule limiting political activity for churches. ( Evan Vucci / Associated Press) President Trump signed an executive order Thursday that he said would protect politically active churches from losing their tax-free status. But as has repeatedly been true during his young administration, the actual text proved more modest than his words.“ For too long the federal government has used the state as a weapon against people of faith,” Trump said to an audience of conservative religious leaders gathered in the White House Rose Garden. “ You’re now in a position to say what you want to say,” he added before signing the order, along with a proclamation. “ We are giving our churches their voices back.” The order was aimed at fulfilling a campaign promise Trump made to “totally destroy” a federal law known as the Johnson Amendment, which prohibits tax-exempt organizations, including churches, from actively supporting political candidates. The ban, written by then- Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas in the 1950s, has seldom been used to remove a church’s tax exemption, although some religious groups, both conservative and liberal, have said that its existence constrains their speech on political issues. Its repeal has not been a top priority for most religious conservative groups, but Trump has often spoken about it. Trump’s order does not change the law; that would require Congress to act. And, despite his declaration, the order doesn’t necessarily change the way the Internal Revenue Service might enforce the law. The text of the order, which the White House did not release until after Trump’s remarks, says only that the Treasury Department, “to the extent permitted by law” would not take “any adverse action” against individuals, houses of worship or other religious groups on the basis of speech “about moral or political issues from a religious perspective” that does not amount to “participation or intervention in a political campaign” in favor of or in opposition to “a candidate for public office.” It’s not clear whether that would change any IRS rules. Before the signing ceremony, an administration official said the order would direct the IRS to "exercise maximum enforcement discretion" in applying the Johnson Amendment. But the text does not include that language. The new order contains a more vague, blanket statement that the administration is committed "to protect and vigorously promote religious liberty." The gap between Trump’s language and the actual order follows a pattern: The president’s descriptions of his executive actions often go considerably beyond the reality of what they do. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House deputy press secretary, said the administration’s legal staff believes the order does protect clergy from IRS sanctions if they make political endorsements from the pulpit, though a church would still be subject to losing its nonprofit status if it placed political advertisements. The IRS in the past has told religious groups that open endorsements of candidates from the pulpit could violate the law. White House officials pointed to an IRS document that said from 2010 through 2013, there were 99 cases nationwide alleging violations by churches that “merit a high priority examination.” How many actually were investigated is not clear. Trump’s order, timed for Thursday's National Day of Prayer, included no mention of a much broader religious liberty provision leaked in February that could have allowed business owners to discriminate based on sexual orientation or other circumstances that involve moral objections. That proposal, actively pushed by social conservatives, has been the subject of internal debate at the White House and appears to have been shelved, at least for now. Sanders, asked why Trump did not include the language that had been in the February draft, said executive orders go through many revisions before the president signs them and that this one fulfilled his goal of protecting religious liberty. Evangelicals supported Trump strongly during his election and had been pressuring the administration to go further in giving businesses discretion to assert morality clauses without running afoul of anti-discrimination laws.“ It’s not a disappointment; 80% is better than nothing,” said the Rev. Franklin Graham, a leading evangelist who attended Thursday’s ceremony at the White House and spoke at Trump’s inauguration, in an interview. “ This is a political world and you don’t always get everything you want.” Graham said that he hoped Congress would overturn the Johnson Amendment and Trump would return to craft a morality exemption for business owners, but that he believed the new order “does for the time being open up the opportunity for pastors to speak out.” Gay rights groups had been on guard against a broader religious liberty order, and other liberal groups warned that Thursday’s narrower executive order could infringe on the separation between church and state and weaken campaign finance regulations." Today's Executive Order is payment to religious extremists for their support,” said Rabbi Jack Moline, president of Interfaith Alliance, in a statement. “ It is not in the interests of American citizens, including those who voted Mr. Trump into office. It is a betrayal of the First Amendment.” The order does aim to allow religious groups to avoid a mandate to provide contraception coverage under President Obama's healthcare law, the Affordable Care Act, potentially expanding an exemption that had been carved out in the courts. That part of the order may become moot if Congress passes legislation to repeal the healthcare law. In the meantime, however, a senior administration official who briefed reporters Wednesday night said unspecified "regulatory relief" would come later. Trump met with evangelical leaders Wednesday night and with Catholic leaders Thursday morning before signing the order at the Rose Garden ceremony. Staff writer Jaweed Kaleem in Los Angeles contributed to this report.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-house-obamacare-vote-20170504-story.html
President Trump's remarks on House passage of the AHCA President Trump's remarks on House passage of the American Health Care Act President Trump's remarks on House passage of the American Health Care Act House Republicans narrowly passed legislation Thursday to roll back the Affordable Care Act, the first step toward delivering on a years-long campaign promise despite mounting concerns from healthcare groups that the legislation would strip protections enjoyed by millions of Americans. The tight vote, 217-213, with all Democrats opposed, underscored the limited appeal of the American Health Care Act, which passed thanks to last-minute deal-making and the personal intervention of President Trump. Even so, 20 Republicans defected to vote against the measure. After House GOP leaders had shelved previous attempts to advance the bill because of a lack of support from their own party, Thursday’s vote provided a major legislative victory to Trump, which may give momentum to his other priorities and bolster his efforts to be seen as a leader who can govern with the Republican majority in Congress.“ Make no mistake, this is a repeal and replace of Obamacare,” a buoyant Trump said at a Rose Garden reception for Republicans at the White House immediately after the vote. “ It’s essentially dead.“ It’s going to be an unbelievable victory when we get it through the Senate,” he added. But the future of the bill remains highly uncertain as Senate Republicans expressed deep reservations about the potential that Americans will lose their healthcare coverage under the measure. Several Senate leaders, including health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander ( R- Tenn.), indicated Thursday afternoon they wanted to take a very different approach, proceeding slowly with a new bill that would not jeopardize coverage for as many people as the House measure. That means that any Senate progress on health legislation will probably take weeks, if not months, and could pose a serious challenge if it must be reconciled with the House version, which was crafted to win over the most conservative wing of the party. Longer term, the narrow passage of the House bill — which was uncertain until the final votes were cast — and the prospect that the debate will drag into the summer or beyond virtually ensures that healthcare once again will be a dominant issue in the midterm election. Needing every vote they could get, Republican leaders pressed many of their members from swing districts — including all California Republicans who represent areas Trump lost last year — to support the bill. Democrats are likely to use those votes against Republicans when they run for reelection, just as Republicans did in ousting Democrats after Obamacare was passed in 2010. Democrats sang, “ Hey, hey, hey, goodbye,” on the House floor as the bill was being approved, predicting voters would boot Republicans from office as a result. Protesters chanted, “ Shame on you!” outside the Capitol as Republicans boarded buses to whisk them to the White House. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) orchestrated a full-scale floor opposition Thursday against what she called the “moral monstrosity of Trumpcare,” but in the end, Democrats were unable to block the measure. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.), whose political reputation was riding on the outcome, told lawmakers this was their moment to make good on their promise to voters.“ Are we going to be men and women of our word? Are we going to keep the promises we made? Or are we going to falter?” Ryan said in an unusually fiery speech ahead of the vote. “ Let us pass this bill to take the next step to put Obamacare behind us.” Despite the risk of a voter backlash against the bill, many Republican strategists believe their candidates would face even bigger peril by failing to fulfill the party’s repeated promises to repeal Obamacare. The full cost and impact of the bill remain unclear because GOP leaders called the vote without first waiting for a new analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. A previous assessment, before amendments were made to appease both conservative and centrist factions of the party, estimated the GOP plan would leave 24 million more Americans without healthcare coverage by 2026. The legislation cuts more than a $1 trillion in federal healthcare assistance to low- and moderate-income Americans, primarily through a landmark retrenchment in Medicaid, the half-century-old government health plan for the poor. It stands to reverse an expansion of healthcare under Obamacare that has brought the nation’s uninsured rate to the lowest level recorded — an additional 20 million Americans have gained coverage. And even though Republicans said their bill would lower premiums and protect vulnerable Americans, the vote was swiftly condemned by a wide range of patient advocates, physicians and other healthcare groups.“ American lives are at stake,” warned Dr. Georges C. Benjamin, executive director of the American Public Health Assn., who urged Senate leaders not to be as “reckless, shortsighted and heartless” as the House. Potentially faring best in the House bill would be wealthy Americans and the insurance industry. Both would benefit from the elimination of as much as $600 billion in taxes enacted under Obamacare to help pay for the coverage expansion. Several studies have shown that Trump’s own supporters, living in conservative, rural areas, would fare the worst, paying higher premiums or losing benefits. A key change from the original bill that was sought by the conservative House Freedom Caucus allows states to apply for waivers from some of Obamacare’s most popular requirements, including the ban on insurers charging more for patients with preexisting medical conditions. Advocates for patients with cancer, diabetes and other serious illnesses fear that would allow insurers to once again bill people with these diseases thousands of dollars more for insurance, making coverage unaffordable in many cases. Late Wednesday, another amendment was added to win back centrists worried about the effect of those state waivers. That change poured an additional $8 billion into high-risk insurance pools to cover patients with preexisting conditions who can’t obtain traditional coverage. The additional money did little to convince healthcare professionals, who have cautioned that these pools, common before Obamacare, have proved woefully inadequate to cover the medical needs of sick patients shut out of commercial health insurance. Dr. Andrew W. Gurman, president of the American Medical Assn., said the changes only “tinker at the edges without remedying the fundamental failing of the bill — that millions of Americans will lose their health insurance as a direct result of this proposal.” Neither did the amendments allay the concerns of many Senate Republicans, who have openly criticized the legislation and the rushed process that House leaders used to advance it. Sen. Rob Portman ( R- Ohio), whose state has expanded Medicaid coverage through Obamacare, cautioned that any changes to the current law “must be made in a way that does not leave people behind.”“ I continue to have concerns that this bill does not do enough to protect Ohio’s Medicaid expansion population, especially those who are receiving treatment for heroin and prescription drug abuse,” Portman said. Sen. Lindsey Graham ( R- S. C.), a fierce critic of Obamacare, said on Twitter that the House replacement plan “should be viewed with caution,” noting that it had been passed without an analysis from the Congressional Budget Office and with only three hours of debate. Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell ( R- Ky.) called House passage an “important step” and promised that Congress would continue work on the issue. The vote turned out to be far more difficult than initially thought, particularly since the GOP-led House had voted more than 50 times over the years to repeal Obamacare. But those votes were largely symbolic because lawmakers knew then- President Obama would veto any such bill that reached his desk. With the prospects that their legislation might actually become law and as public opinion polls showed Obamacare’s popularity rising, lawmakers weighed the decision much more carefully. Many Republican lawmakers appeared to be resigned to punting the bill to the Senate, where they acknowledge it will be changed or stall.“ It’s not that I’m happy with this bill. I am not,” said Rep. Mario Diaz- Balart ( R- Fla.), who represents a more centrist district and voted for the bill. “ But there’s a long way to go.” Ahead of the vote, Republicans huddled in the Capitol basement, playing the “ Rocky” movie theme song and “ Taking Care of Business” as an inspirational soundtrack. Rep. Mark Meadows ( R- N. C.), the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, who was instrumental in brokering changes to bring conservatives on board, said he called Trump earlier Thursday to touch base before the vote. Trump asked him two questions, he said: Have we made the bill better? Does it cover preexisting conditions? Meadows said yes to both.“ Great, let’s get it done,” he said Trump told him, “and make it better in the Senate.” Obamacare 101 is a primer on the debate over repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-tt-foreign-policy-confusion-20170503-story.html
Trump dreams of a tower in Pyongyang. David Horsey / Los Angeles Times Top of the Ticket cartoon Top of the Ticket cartoon ( David Horsey / Los Angeles Times) When it comes to foreign policy, what is on Donald Trump’s mind? It’s not the easiest thing to decipher, especially if one tries to take his words seriously. More often than not, those words are a source of confusion. During the campaign, Trump said he was going to get tough with the Chinese, punish them for currency manipulation and force them to accept tough trade deals. However, after meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and deciding Xi was a great guy, Trump dropped talk of punitive measures and now says he will settle for a less-than-great trade deal if China helps curb North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. Also during the campaign, Trump guaranteed it would be “easy” to beat ISIS, build a wall on the Mexican border and get rid of bad trade deals, such as NAFTA. None of those things have proved at all easy to accomplish, yet that has not deterred him from talking about the ease of fixing other problems. During a meeting this week with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, Trump said getting a peace deal between Israelis and Palestinians is “maybe not as difficult as people have thought over the years.” Really? Does he honestly believe his son-in-law, Jared Kushner — to whom he has entrusted the task of resolving the intractable conflict — is a miracle worker? Does Trump think Ivanka’s hubby is vastly more skilled and brilliant than all the seasoned diplomats and presidents who have come before? Or are his words disconnected from any actual belief or grasp of thorny details? That disconnection shows in statements he has made about Russia. He has repeatedly refused to speak an unkind word about Russian tyrant Vladimir Putin and, as recently as this week, discounted the unanimous conclusion of American intelligence agencies that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election. ( The subversion of American democracy could have been perpetrated by his new buddies in China, he hypothesized, basing his assertion on nothing more than his own odd notions about computer hacking.) Nevertheless, he has also said relations between the United States and Russia have never been worse than they are right now. Apparently, he has forgotten the entire history of the Cold War. In another corner of the globe, Trump has raised alarm by saying that “a major, major conflict with North Korea” is a looming possibility. Talking tough, he announced a U. S. Navy “armada” was heading toward the Korean peninsula (at a time when, in fact, it was cruising the other way). Despite this, Trump now says, under the right circumstances, he would be “honored” to meet with North Korea’s homicidal dictator, Kim Jong Un. Trump’s missile attack on Syria did not spring from a coherent policy David Horsey Friday afternoon at the northeast corner of Pershing Square in downtown Los Angeles, scores of leftist protesters gathered to speak out against American military intervention in Syria. At the same hour, Twitter and Facebook were being lit up by angry folks at the other end of the political spectrum,... Friday afternoon at the northeast corner of Pershing Square in downtown Los Angeles, scores of leftist protesters gathered to speak out against American military intervention in Syria. At the same hour, Twitter and Facebook were being lit up by angry folks at the other end of the political spectrum,... ( David Horsey) Apparently, Trump has a high tolerance for homicidal dictators, and not just Kim and Putin. On Saturday, he phoned bloody-handed Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to let him know he is welcome to visit the White House. When criticized for sucking up to a major human rights violator, Trump defended his call by saying Duterte is a very popular with his people (so, of course, was Hitler). Trump also recently put in a call to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to congratulate him for winning a referendum that put another nail in the coffin of Turkey’s secular democracy. And he heaped praise on Egyptian despot Abdel Fattah Sisi when he hosted him at the White House. Trump has a habit of speaking about autocrats with gushing admiration, praising their strength, leadership and high poll numbers. Does this mean he has abandoned America’s long-standing mission to promote human rights in the world? Does it suggest he wishes he could override judges, ignore Congress and shut down newspapers and television stations himself? Or is it simply a pattern of speech, sort of like the host at a charity golf tournament who spouts empty praise for every donor in the clubhouse, even if they are crooks and hypocrites? Does it make a difference that he has done business in many of these countries and that his two sons are still busy drumming up international deals for the Trump family enterprise? There are Trump buildings in Manila and Istanbul. There are Trump products made in China. There is a record of Trump projects attempted in Moscow. Maybe he envisions a Trump tower in Pyongyang one day. Who knows what Trump’s motivations may be? It is a mystery to the world because, in international affairs, the Trump Doctrine is as ephemeral as his latest tweet. David. Horsey@latimes.com Follow me at @davidhorsey on Twitter
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-spending-20170502-story.html
Trump with USAF Falcons Mark Wilson / Getty Images President Trump speaks at a Rose Garden ceremony to honor the U. S. Air Force Falcons football team. President Trump speaks at a Rose Garden ceremony to honor the U. S. Air Force Falcons football team. ( Mark Wilson / Getty Images) President Trump, smarting at the notion that he was outmaneuvered by Democrats in their first real legislative showdown, is musing openly about seeking to scrap one of the last remaining checks the minority party has, even suggesting he might welcome a government shutdown this fall to further that end. From the Rose Garden and his Twitter account Tuesday, Trump did little to hide his frustration with hardening conventional wisdom that the $1-trillion spending plan Congress expects to vote on this week represents a setback for his governing agenda, despite his party having the strongest grip on power in the capital in more than a decade, controlling the House, Senate and White House. Meanwhile, members of both parties were at a loss to explain how what had on Monday appeared to be a rare bipartisan achievement in Washington had evolved 24 hours later into the source of recriminations. As has often been the case with the president, this episode began with a morning series of postings on social media, in which Trump seemed to concede the funding package he signed off on over the weekend — one that largely preserves funding for items he promised to slash, but does not advance his promised border wall — was full of concessions to Democrats. He then laid out options that could absolve him of the need for such compromise in the future: for voters to swell the party’s ranks in the chamber to surpass the 60-vote threshold to overcome filibusters, or for Senate Republicans to eliminate the ability of any senator to demand a three-fifths majority to advance major legislation. He capped that with a remark that seemed to embrace a fiscal crisis as a way to push his agenda.“ Our country needs a good ‘shutdown’ in September to fix mess!” the president tweeted. Aides later said Trump bristled at comments from Democrats claiming victory in the spending fight, as became clear when the president appeared in the Rose Garden hours later. Flanked by members of the Air Force Academy football team in military dress, Trump boasted of the deal’s higher spending levels on defense, “historic investments in border security,” and funding for charter school programs. Put together, he said at the event congratulating the team, “our Republican team had its own victory under the radar,” Trump said.“ And we didn't do any touting like the Democrats did,” he added, before praising new military spending that he said fulfilled a core campaign promise. Democrats had indeed been quick Monday to hail provisions of the spending bill that protected their priorities while averting what they called “poison pill” amendments like one to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood. But legislative leaders from both parties were also eager to sell the package as an example of compromise that was possible if all sides acted in good faith.“ This deal is exactly how Washington should work when it is bipartisan: Both parties negotiated and came to an agreement on a piece of legislation that we can each support. It is truly a shame that the president is degrading it because he didn’t get 100% of what he wanted,” Democratic leader Charles E. Schumer of New York said on the Senate floor. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) groused at having to respond to another presidential Twitter flurry as he faced reporters shortly after the tweets were posted.“ When you look at the bill, there's a lot of good conservative wins here,” he insisted. On Monday morning, Trump had indicated he was satisfied with the agreement and noted both sides could claim victory. But by late Monday, Trump’s budget chief, Mick Mulvaney, was dispatched to the White House briefing room to proclaim victories for the administration.“ I'd be hard-pressed to figure how we could fund more of the priorities,” he said then. By the time the budget chief spoke to reporters again Tuesday afternoon, he said Democrats had tainted future negotiations.“ The president is frustrated with the fact that he negotiated in good faith with the Democrats and they went out to try and spike the football and make him look bad,” Mulvaney said. If Democrats don’t change that posture, he added, a shutdown “may be inevitable.” It wasn’t clear why the president believed a government shutdown — a costly, inconvenient and embarrassing affair — would be beneficial at a time when Republicans control the White House and both chambers in Congress. The White House also could not clarify whether Trump was calling for an actual government shutdown; his tweet put the term in quotation marks, which he sometimes cites later as a sign he was not speaking literally. The last federal shutdown occurred during a standoff between President Obama and Republicans in 2013 over healthcare, lasting 16 days. In Congress, neither side of the aisle wanted a repeat of that.“ That the president would say, in effect, what this country needs is a good shutdown just speaks in volumes as to his insensitivity to what a shutdown means, or his lack of knowledge … of what a shutdown means,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) said in an interview. She questioned whether the comment was reflective of the advice of Mulvaney, a former South Carolina representative whom she called a “ringleader” of the 2013 shutdown.“ What’s he complaining about? That left to their own devices, the Congress came to agreement?” she asked, noting that securing Democratic votes in both the House and Senate has become essential to any government funding effort. If the House and Senate do pass the spending bill this week as expected, it will fund government operations through the close of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. White House officials say Trump will be in even a stronger negotiating position by then. “ We're hopeful that we can see as we go through the 2018 process … more of a Republican-driven process, especially in the House, which would be a little bit more typical,” Mulvaney said Monday. But on the legislative front, it's unclear just what else Republicans will be capable of passing, given ongoing internal divisions and an emboldened Democratic minority. Trump has been increasingly focused on the filibuster hurdle in the Senate. He called the chamber’s rules “archaic” in an interview on Fox News last week, one of many he sat for that was intended to promote his accomplishments during his first 100 days. But while Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell ( R- Ky.) was willing to deploy the so-called “nuclear option” to change Senate rules and allow Trump’s Supreme Court nominee to advance with a simple majority vote, he and other Republicans have indicated that they are not inclined to lower the voting threshold to overcome a filibuster for legislation.“ There is an overwhelming majority on a bipartisan basis not interested in changing the way the Senate operates,” Mc Connell told reporters Tuesday. “ That will not happen.” The Trump administration is set to release a more detailed budget blueprint for 2018 later this month, part of a process that Republicans hope will be a vehicle to enact a far-reaching tax plan. First, they still hope to restart an effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare. It is possible for Republicans to secure both without Democratic votes, Mc Connell said.“ On everything else, the Senate has been known for its bipartisanship, and you're seeing a perfect example of it on the spending bill that will be on the floor this week,” he said.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-senate-russia-20170506-story.html
Sally Yates in June. Saul Loeb / AFP/ Getty Images Sally Yates, a deputy attorney general under President Obama and briefly acting attorney general, will testify Monday before a Senate Judiciary Committee panel. Sally Yates, a deputy attorney general under President Obama and briefly acting attorney general, will testify Monday before a Senate Judiciary Committee panel. ( Saul Loeb / AFP/ Getty Images) A top Obama administration Justice Department official will testify to Congress for the first time Monday about the most explosive contacts to emerge so far between President Trump’s former top aides and senior Russian officials, the focus of several investigations on Capitol Hill. Sally Yates, deputy attorney general under President Obama, is expected to disclose details to a Senate Judiciary Committee panel about her warnings to White House officials in January that Trump’s national security advisor, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other officials about his conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Flynn was fired 18 days after Yates went to the White House, and only after news stories revealed the existence of a transcript of Flynn’s telephone conversation with Kislyak, which was recorded as part of routine U. S. intelligence monitoring of foreign officials’ communications. Yates, a former U. S. attorney who became deputy attorney general in 2015, took over the Justice Department as acting attorney general after Trump was inaugurated Jan. 20 while he prepared his own team. She was fired 10 days later after she announced that under her leadership, the Justice Department would not defend Trump’s executive order seeking to bar travel to the U. S. from select Muslim-majority nations. Yates’ attorney did not return messages Friday seeking comment about her upcoming testimony. James R. Clapper, the director of national intelligence during the Obama administration, is also scheduled to testify at the same hearing. Lawmakers from both parties are likely to press Yates for details about her warnings to the White House that Flynn’s misrepresentations to Pence, and to the public, about his conversations with Kislyak left him vulnerable to blackmail by Moscow. Trump's former national security advisor under Pentagon investigation for Russia payments David S. Cloud Former national security advisor Michael Flynn’s legal troubles worsened Thursday when a House committee disclosed that the Pentagon inspector general is investigating whether the retired Army three-star general violated military rules by accepting foreign payments. Flynn was warned in 2014, when... Former national security advisor Michael Flynn’s legal troubles worsened Thursday when a House committee disclosed that the Pentagon inspector general is investigating whether the retired Army three-star general violated military rules by accepting foreign payments. Flynn was warned in 2014, when... ( David S. Cloud) The FBI director, James B. Comey, recently told a judiciary subcommittee that Yates had spoken to him about her “concerns that Gen. Flynn had been compromised.” Flynn and Kislyak exchanged phone calls and text messages during the White House transition, and were in touch on Dec. 29, the day the Obama administration levied a range of sanctions against Moscow for meddling in the 2016 election. After leaks revealed those contacts, Flynn and other Trump administration officials, including Pence, denied that Flynn and Kislyak had discussed easing the sanctions. Doing so might violate the Logan Act, a 1799 law prohibiting private citizens from negotiating with foreign governments. Those denials unraveled in mid- February after news stories revealed the existence of a transcript of Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak, and Flynn was forced to resign. Yates was supposed to testify last month to the House Intelligence Committee, but the appearance was canceled by Rep. Devin Nunes, the chairman. Nunes later recused himself from the panel’s Russia inquiry after the House Ethics Committee announced it was investigating whether the Tulare Republican had wrongly disclosed classified information amid his claims that U. S. surveillance under Obama had deliberately targeted Trump’s aides. The Senate Intelligence Committee, which is conducting a parallel investigation, sent a letter to several members of Trump’s former campaign team last month seeking details of their contacts and financial ties with Russian authorities. In addition to Flynn, those who received the letters are Roger Stone, an informal advisor to Trump; Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman; and Carter Page, an energy trader and former foreign policy advisor to the campaign. The FBI opened a counter-intelligence investigation last July after learning of Page’s business relationships in Russia and his ties to officials in President Vladimir Putin’s government in Moscow. The FBI inquiry has expanded to determine whether any of Trump’s current or former aides improperly coordinated with Russian intelligence services to interfere with the 2016 campaign. In a letter dated April 28, the Senate committee asked Page to supply a list of “all meetings between you and any Russian official or representative of Russian business interests” from 2015 to 2017, according to a copy of the letter that Page provided to the Los Angeles Times. It asked him to provide the list and any notes he took at those meetings by Tuesday. The letter also asked Page to provide details of any meetings with Russians by other Trump associates, and their “financial and real estate holdings” in Russia. It set a deadline of May 19 for that information. In a return letter, Page denounced the committee request as a “witch hunt.” He demanded that the Senate panel give him all U. S. government documents it possessed, including classified material, about his Russian investments, meetings and other connections before he would provide any documents in return. On Friday, Sen. Richard M. Burr ( R- N. C.), the committee chairman, and Sen. Mark R. Warner ( D- Va.), the panel’s ranking member, warned Page against backing away from his promise to cooperate in the investigation, although they stopped short of threatening specific action. If Page fails to meet the deadlines, “the Committee will consider its next steps at that time,” the two leaders said in a statement. ALSOMc Manus: Is the GOP getting serious about the Russia investigation? President Trump has backed off many of his provocative foreign policy promises
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-healthcare-vote-analysis-20170505-story.html
With a push from Trump, House Republicans pass Obamacare overhaul The full cost and impact of the final changes to the bill remain unclear. ( May 4, 2017)   The full cost and impact of the final changes to the bill remain unclear. ( May 4, 2017)   Many House Republicans who gambled to pass a healthcare plan must now turn to a new challenge: survival. The two largest purges of House members since the early 1940s have followed efforts to remake the nation’s healthcare system: in 1994, when Democrats lost 52 seats after the collapse of the Clinton administration’s healthcare plan, and in 2010, when the party lost 63 seats after the narrow passage of the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare. Those precedents have fed Democratic hopes that efforts to repeal President Obama’s healthcare plan could have a positive side effect for them: control of the House in 2018. Significant uncertainty remains. Democrats would have to gain almost two dozen seats to take back the House. Voters won’t cast their ballots for 18 months, a span of time in which other issues could rise in importance. And at least some Republicans believe that experts who failed to predict President Trump’s victory last November are failing to understand voter attitudes toward Congress and healthcare today. But right now, both sides are planning for a midterm election in which the highly contentious and historically emotional issue of healthcare is likely to remain a focus. The fact that the Senate isn’t likely to begin debate on its own plan until June, and the two Republican-led chambers will then have try to forge a compromise, means the issue will remain in the headlines for weeks, perhaps months. Democrats to run ads targeting California's House Republicans who voted for healthcare bill Cathleen Decker Cathleen Decker Studies of the impact of the 2010 Obamacare vote showed that Democrats from vulnerable districts “paid a significant price,” George Washington University political scientist Sara Binder said. ( The 1994 healthcare plan was killed without a vote.)“ They were far more likely to lose their seat, even once we factored in everything else that would have affected them in those places,” she said of 2010’s spurned incumbents.“ There’s an analogy here,” she said. “ It was a risky vote for many Republicans.” Despite the risks, however, Binder and others said that internal party politics made Thursday’s vote imperative for the GOP.“ It’s hard inside the Beltway to get a good appreciation for how popular Obamacare repeal remains for Republican voters,” Binder said. “ Republican leaders clearly think they owe their base this vote.” In the end, that argument was the one that persuaded many wavering Republicans to vote for the bill: After the party had promised for seven years to repeal Obamacare, it simply couldn’t turn its back on the voters who had accepted that promise and elected them. ( A Pew Research poll taken in February showed that almost 9 in 10 Republican voters opposed Obamacare.)“ There’s a danger any time politicians change what is perceived as a government mandate,” said Harmeet Dhillon, one of two Republican National Committee members from California and a former vice chair of the state GOP. “ For Republicans, there was also a danger in doing nothing.” But that doesn’t change the fact that voting for the bill also carried huge risk. Already, nonpartisan election handicappers are saying that Thursday’s vote put Republicans in competitive congressional districts, including several in California, at greater jeopardy. Seven California Republicans serve in House districts won last November by Hillary Clinton and considered competitive in 2018; all voted for the GOP healthcare plan. David Wasserman, who analyzes Houses races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, said in a report Friday that the post-vote landscape “is consistent with past scenarios that have generated a midterm wave” against the party in power.“ Not only did dozens of Republicans in marginal districts just hitch their names to an unpopular piece of legislation, Democrats just received another valuable candidate recruitment tool,” he said. “ In fact, Democrats aren't so much recruiting candidates as they are overwhelmed by a deluge of eager newcomers, including doctors and veterans in traditionally red seats who have no political record for the GOP to attack — almost a mirror image of 2010.” Between presidential elections, independent voters generally lose interest. That means midterm races typically become a battle between party regulars. The party out of power — in this case Democrats, who with the loss of the White House in November have no power base in Washington — historically benefits from increased intensity among its disgruntled voters. There’s very little Congress can do that people take more personally than monkeying around with healthcare. — Parke Skelton, political strategist That certainly has been true leading to the 2018 elections. Already, Democrats have used as motivation President Trump and his early moves on issues including immigration, his budget plan that would gut many domestic programs, and healthcare. Special elections in Kansas and Georgia earlier in the spring have suggested that Republican voters, meanwhile, have been less enthusiastic in the early months of the Trump administration. The question of whether the healthcare vote has immediate political consequences will be tested in upcoming elections prompted by the departures of Republican incumbents for roles in the Trump administration. In Montana, where voters will decide May 25 on a replacement for Ryan Zinke, the former at-large congressman who is now Interior secretary, Democrat Rob Quist immediately sought to use the healthcare measure against Republican Greg Gianforte. Quist said the bill “would kick thousands of hardworking Montanans off of their health insurance and raise premiums by hundreds of dollars a month” in addition to lessening protections for those with preexisting conditions. “ No real Montanan would vote for it,” he said, castigating his opponent as standing “with the special-interest authors of this bill.” Gianforte has supported repealing Obamacare but said Friday he would not have voted on the House measure until congressional budget officials had determined its impact. Jon Ossoff, the Democratic nominee in the tossup Georgia House runoff on June 20, also used the vote to extend his credibility as an independent voice — a key need in a district that has long been held by Republicans. The measure that passed the House, he said, “puts Georgians’ lives at risk.”“ Congress should put aside partisan politics and work to make affordable insurance and quality care available to all Americans,” he said. Once the special elections wrap up, both parties will turn their attention to 2018. At this early point, Democratic strategists say they are thrilled about the potential benefit of the House vote. The Democratic congressional campaign committee will start airing drive-time radio ads Monday on multiple stations in the Los Angeles market. The ads are aimed at five Republicans representing competitive southern California districts.“ What happened today is devastating for Darrell Issa’s reelection bid,” Parke Skelton, a strategist for Mike Levin, one of the two Democrats challenging the Vista congressman, said Thursday night. Levin previewed the argument that many Democrats will make against Republican incumbents: “ He voted to have a massive tax reduction for the wealthiest among us, like him, rather than preserve access to affordable healthcare.”( Issa, whose November victory came by the smallest margin of any House race, said that his constituents needed relief from the Obama plan.) While much will happen between now and election day 2018, Skelton said he is confident healthcare will remain top of mind for voters.“ There’s very little Congress can do that people take more personally than monkeying around with healthcare,” he said. Republicans are hopeful that by that time voters will begin to see benefits — either to their health insurance or through the tax cuts that were included in the healthcare measure, assuming those survive the Senate remake.“ It is way early in the cycle,” said Republican pollster Ed Goeas when asked for a prediction. Republican fortunes will rise if voters’ focus next year is not on the vote but on “seeing some real differences in their lives,” he said. For more on politics »
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-deals-20170503-story.html
Donald Trump Andrew Harnik / AP President Trump stands in the Oval Office after an interview with the Associated Press. President Trump stands in the Oval Office after an interview with the Associated Press. ( Andrew Harnik / AP) President Trump launched his second hundred days this week in the manner many of his voters expected from the start: as an aspiring deal-maker. He signed off on a $1-trillion spending deal to keep the government open. He dived back into a legislative quagmire that had stymied him at first, healthcare. And he promised progress on the thorniest and most elusive of all deals: Mideast peace. But at almost every turn, the president has seemed to struggle with the constraints governing puts on dealmaking — limitations that were absent in his business career. As the art of the deal adapts to the art of compromise, Trump is demonstrating that for him, flexibility outweighs adherence to a central philosophical vision. President Obama often spoke of the value of incremental gains on issues that would point the nation on a path toward realizing his broader vision. Trump so far seems more intent on gaining big victories for victory’s sake, content to trade horses in ways that don’t necessarily reveal a greater governing goal. “ I always protect myself by being flexible,” he wrote in his 1987 book, “ The Art of The Deal.”“ I keep a lot of balls in the air, because most deals fall out.” When Republicans’ initial healthcare effort stalled in February, Trump responded by lashing out at members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus and even suggested he might support bids to unseat them. But on Thursday, he celebrated with them in the Rose Garden after an amended bill passed by a razor-thin margin.“ We have a lot of groups,” Trump said after ticking off various Republican constituencies that included the moderate Tuesday Group. “ But they all came together.” Trump pledges to help his voters. In the meantime, he doesn't mind punishing the opposition Noah Bierman and Evan Halper When officials for some big, Democratic-leaning cities asked the Trump administration during a meeting in March about a grant competition for major highway and transit projects, the message they got was concerning: Don’t get your hopes up. The White House would be pursuing a new strategy for handing... When officials for some big, Democratic-leaning cities asked the Trump administration during a meeting in March about a grant competition for major highway and transit projects, the message they got was concerning: Don’t get your hopes up. The White House would be pursuing a new strategy for handing... ( Noah Bierman and Evan Halper) How they did reflects how the president’s approach already has changed over his short tenure. In the initial healthcare negotiations, Trump welcomed an endless parade of House Republican lawmakers to the White House, but often they would return to Capitol Hill empty-handed. Lawmakers were thrilled to find the president receptive of their ideas — he typically would turn to aides and ask them to look into a legislator’s request — but his enthusiasm often created mixed signals among competing factions and rarely resulted in a clear decision, members of Congress said. That changed in the last week, when Trump tried to muscle wavering lawmakers on board.“ He was much more directly engaged — not that he wasn’t before, but certainly more aggressively engaged,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, deputy White House press secretary. In the initial effort, Trump met with lawmakers in larger groups, but in the past week, he put a greater emphasis on one-on-one discussions, mostly phone calls. The initial defection of influential Rep. Fred Upton ( R- Mich.) was a huge blow to the House’s effort to pass the healthcare bill, as was the loss of Rep. Billy Long ( R- Mo.). The two were among those worried that patients with preexisting conditions would lose coverage under the House Republican bill. They were working on an amendment to ease concerns of centrist lawmakers by pumping $8 billion to states to help cover health insurance costs. Trump called them both Tuesday.“ I talked to the president for a good length, and I told him, without this provision, I couldn’t be there because I’ve always been concerned about those with preexisting,” Upton told reporters. “ And he didn’t really want to accept changes.” Long hit a similar dead end after repeated calls from Trump.“ The president said, ‘ Billy, we really need you. We need you, man.’ I said, ‘ You don’t have me.’ “ He said, ‘ We really need you.’ We went through that for 20 minutes,” Long recalled.“ He called back yesterday. ‘ We need you. We need you. We need you.’ I said, ‘ I’m a no.’ I said Fred Upton and I have been working on some language.” White House aides asked the two lawmakers to “come down and explain it to him,” and the next day, they were at the White House.“ One of the lines that I read to him was that he said on Sunday that he wanted to make sure that the preexisting conditions were just as strong as in Obamacare,” Upton told reporters later that day, referring to remarks Trump had made in an interview with CBS News.“ I pointed out a possible window of folks that would be excluded and what our amendment did,” Upton said. “ He accepted fairly quickly.” Obama was criticized for failing to wine-and-dine members of Congress; Trump is showing that schmoozing goes only so far. Lawmakers care about the details not necessarily because they’re policy wonks, said Sarah Binder, a professor at George Washington University, but because they need to be able to understand the thorny particulars of legislation so they can talk to their voters about the issues.“ It just seems that the ingredient you need to make unified party control as the silver bullet to break partisan gridlock [is] you’d have to have a more popular president,” she said. Another shortcoming of Trump’s approach, which the president does not appear to have fully grasped, is that the negotiations he’s done so far were mostly within the Republican Party. But on most other issues he will confront, he will have no choice but to deal with Democrats. That was true with the spending bill that Trump signed into law Friday from his New Jersey golf resort. In that $1-trillion funding package, Trump gave way on several priorities, including money for his promised wall along the southwestern border, in return for a bill that kept federal agencies running and gave more money to the Pentagon. Both Democrats and Republicans celebrated the deal, as did the White House, at first. But in the president’s view, Democrats were overzealous in spinning the deal as a setback for him, and he responded by suggesting ways to cut them out of negotiations entirely in the future — including getting rid of the Senate filibuster, under which 41 senators can block action on legislation. He took to Twitter to suggest, among other things, that perhaps a good “shutdown” of the government next time a spending bill is needed, in September, would advance conservatives’ goals.“ I think he’s understandably frustrated with how hard he’s working to achieve the promises, goals and objectives that he set out with the American people to make the country better, and to deal with multiple layers of obstructionism,” Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Wednesday. To Democrats, that frustration only demonstrates why his campaign boasts about his dealmaking acumen never should have been trusted.“ He claims that he’s a deal-maker, but if it doesn’t work out for him, he declares bankruptcy,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D- San Francisco) said in an interview. “ That’s what I heard him say … when he said what this country needs is a good shutdown.” Lawmakers viewed Trump’s push for spending priorities, particularly his insistence on money for the border wall, which came late in the process, as gumming up what had been steady progress by congressional negotiators.“ He seems to have a knack for actually preventing people from getting agreements,” said Sen. Chris Van Hollen ( D- Md.), formerly the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. Despite the president’s apparent agitation with the spending bill, the White House insisted to the end it was a good deal. Some of Trump’s most committed supporters feel otherwise. Ann Coulter, a conservative firebrand, asked in one op-ed how businessman Trump would have reacted if an employee charged with building a new golf course had still not yet broken ground, much as his “big, beautiful wall” remains at best in the planning state.“ Trump would fire that employee so fast your head would spin,” she wrote at Breitbart.com, the website previously run by Stephen Bannon, now the White House chief strategist.“ We want the ruthless businessman we were promised,” she wrote. Ultimately, Trump’s best chance for success in future negotiations may be to accumulate greater political leverage, Binder said. The Republican strategy of relying on their own numbers to pass legislation “might work if you were a unified Republican Congress, but this is a really fractured Congress.”“ The problem is you have these pretty tough disagreements between the right side and the left side of the Republican Party,” she said.“ You need presidential leadership and political cover
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-trump-voters-20170507-story.html
Trump pledges to help his voters. In the meantime, he doesn't mind punishing the opposition - LA Times Marine One helicopter Pablo Martinez Monsivais / Associated Press President Trump, aboard Marine One, prepares to land near Wall Street in New York on Thursday. Although he's a native New Yorker, his budget priorities tilt away from the big, Democratic cities that opposed him in the election. President Trump, aboard Marine One, prepares to land near Wall Street in New York on Thursday. Although he's a native New Yorker, his budget priorities tilt away from the big, Democratic cities that opposed him in the election. ( Pablo Martinez Monsivais / Associated Press) When officials for some big, Democratic-leaning cities asked the Trump administration during a meeting in March about a grant competition for major highway and transit projects, the message they got was concerning: Don’t get your hopes up. The White House would be pursuing a new strategy for handing out the money, said Transportation Department officials, who hosted the session, one that focused on boosting “overlooked” communities. Many in the room took the guidance to mean that Trump intends to spend that money in places that voted for him, according to the official who described the session on condition that none of the attendees be identified. Presidential power has long been used to reinforce the incumbent’s electoral base, but Trump’s focus on where he won stands out. He talks about it constantly. He handed out electoral maps to reporters during an interview on his first 100 days in office and boasted to another group that his decision to drop a campaign promise and stay in the North American Free Trade Agreement was sealed when he studied separate maps reflecting the impact on his political strongholds in farm states. The administration’s agenda aims to re-slice the pie in a way that would shrink the share for many heavily Democratic states and urban areas. Along with that comes Trump’s taste for threatening urban liberals." We give tremendous amounts of money to California,” he told Fox News Channel host Bill O’ Reilly in February, in describing his plan to pull funding from sanctuary cities. “ California in many ways is out of control, as you know.” In truth, California, like most wealthy states with big urban centers, pays considerably more to Washington in taxes than it gets back in federal spending. The federal government for decades has redistributed money from the Northeast and West Coast to poorer states, especially in the South. The Trump administration seems to want to push that trend further. White House efforts to reshape how federal policy affects states and local governments are playing out in policies large and small, from ominous declarations about punishing sanctuary cities to efforts at blocking money for commuter trains in the Bay Area, to musings about forcing Californians and New Yorkers to purchase electricity generated by burning coal.“ His philosophy is win, win, win, and he is not interested in what is polite or has historical precedent or is seen as the graceful way to lead,” said presidential historian Douglas Brinkley, a professor at Rice University in Texas.“ He is dividing and conquering. You will see him start to punish states he has no chance of winning in 2020, and doing things that focus on feeding revenues to places like Michigan, Ohio.” How that will work over time and how successful Trump will be remain unknown. Congress ultimately controls many decisions about spending. But Trump aides speak frequently of the special obligation to renew the prominence of rural and small town America.“ His vote was to a remarkable degree [fueled by] people who felt neglected and ignored and betrayed by the traditional political class,” said Trump confidant Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker. “ He sees himself as their tribune… That’s very real.” Trump’s allies, however, insist that does not mean a calculated system of reward and punishment. Many of the policies that could help forgotten manufacturing towns and farm belt states and punish Trump foes coincide with broader campaign promises. Some White House initiatives that could hit Californians hard, like the push to repeal Obamacare, could hit voters in Trump country even harder. And the president's efforts to promote corporations extend to firms like Boeing, headquartered in Chicago, a city where plans are afoot to float massive gold balloons shaped like pigs in front of the “ Trump” sign on his signature downtown building later this summer.“ I haven’t heard him once suggest that he’s going to benefit states or only people that supported him,” said Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax, a conservative website, and longtime Trump confidant.“ There is a feeling certain areas of the country have been left behind, like the Rust Belt and the Midwest. Those are areas that happened to have voted for him.” White House statements that previewed a shift of money started when Trump announced that he plans to withhold funds from sanctuary cities that resist cooperation with federal deportation efforts. It continued when he released his first budget in March, proposing deep cuts to transit and federal housing programs that target urban revitalization. It intensified with a tax plan unveiled last month that would wreak havoc in California, Illinois, New York and other deep-blue states by revoking the tax deduction for state and local tax payments. The state and local tax deduction is worth thousands of dollars for families in high-tax places who itemize their deductions and is crucial to offsetting the cost of ambitious government programs in blue states.“ We don’t think it’s the federal government’s job to be subsidizing states,” Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said recently at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills. California and New York account for a third of what the deduction costs the federal government nationwide, and leaders in those places say the politics are undeniable.“ His proposal to eliminate the state and local tax deduction has nothing to do with simplifying the tax code and everything to do with punishing California,” said California State Senate Leader Kevin de Leon. Of course, the politics cut both ways. Asked about the threat to eliminate the deduction, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi waved it off with a scoffing laugh. Republicans have talked about the idea for years, but their House majority depends on GOP representatives from wealthy suburban districts where many voters take the deduction, making the idea of repeal more attractive in theory than reality. Other cuts are more immediately achievable. The administration did not wait for congressional deliberations before blocking a $647 million grant that had already been approved for electrifying the wheezing, overburdened and outdated Caltrain commuter line that connects San Francisco to Silicon Valley, as well as to help fund the state’s multi-billion dollar high-speed rail project. The grant was stopped at the behest of a group of Republican congressmen in California who oppose the high-speed rail project, but the disruption it caused for the more immediate need to update the transit network in the Bay Area spread panic from the governor’s office to the boardrooms of Silicon Valley. Leaders of some of the nation’s biggest tech companies joined state leaders in demanding the administration free up the funds.“ I never imagined that the electrification of a train would be subjected to such brutal, partisan politics,” Congresswoman Anna Eshoo ( D- Menlo Park) said at the time. The stopgap spending bill that Trump signed into law on Friday freed some of the money for Caltrain, but much of it remains in limbo. California is, of course, an inevitable target for Republican administrations. The state has used its out-sized economic clout for decades to impose regulations aimed at forcing industries to meet Sacramento’s environmental agenda. But Trump’s promise for a resurgence in coal and other fossil-fuel industries is already rattling blue-state regulators who have long held the White House has no power to disrupt their clean-energy policies. Trump allied with Detroit auto manufacturers to threaten California’s unique legal authority to set tougher fuel-mileage standards for cars and trucks than the rest of the country. Energy Secretary Rick Perry signaled last month that he may assert that the national security interest in a stable power grid overrides the state’s ban on electricity derived from coal. California Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom began battling Republican White Houses when he served as mayor of San Francisco and fought with George W. Bush over same-sex marriage. Newsom said that even at the height of those clashes, there remained a back channel through which elder GOP statesmen in California like George Shultz, the former secretary of State, could keep lines of communication open. San Francisco’s pioneering universal healthcare law, a beacon of progressive policy when it was launched, would have collapsed if the Bush administration had not approved key funding.“ We don’t have that now with the Trump administration,” Newsom said. “ We don’t have the confidence cooler heads will prevail. More traditional rules applied then. These folks are much more punitive and petulant.” Yet many of Trump’s boldest proposals face an uncertain future. Some, like the threats against sanctuary cities, have run into problems in court. Others face opposition in Congress. Julián Castro, who served as secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President Obama, said the community development block grant program that Trump wants to wipe out offers an instructive lesson. The president, he said, is misreading both the needs of his base and the interdependence between the country’s urban, rural and suburban areas. Castro said that block grant program has evolved over four decades as one of the most politically resilient in the federal government. When Obama proposed a small cut one year, Congress returned with a funding increase. Even as the grants are weighted toward urban areas, the money is also spread to small towns, whose smaller budgets are more dependent on the money.“ He doesn’t see his supporters as folks who live in big cities,” Castro said. “ It’s not a very nuanced view of politics and probably not completely accurate.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-pol-essential-politics-20170505-story.html
The legislative fight over healthcare these past several weeks has offered House Republicans a choice of unattractive options. Failure to pass a bill would have meant that even with a huge majority in the House and control of the Senate and the White House, Republicans could not fulfill their most basic promise to the voters who elected them: the pledge to repeal Obamacare. Success meant forcing Republicans in vulnerable, swing districts to vote for a bill that is deeply unpopular, almost certainly putting some of their seats at risk, perhaps enough to lose the House majority in 2018. Good afternoon, I’m David Lauter, Washington bureau chief. Welcome to the Friday edition of our Essential Politics newsletter, in which we look at the events of the week in Washington and elsewhere in national politics and highlight some particularly insightful stories. HOW COSTLY A WIN? As Democrats can testify from the bitter experience of 2010, passing a bill that many voters see as a threat to their healthcare can pave a quick road to defeat. As Democrats can testify from an equally bitter loss in 1994, when Bill Clinton was president, failure to pass a promised bill on healthcare also can lead to defeat. Speaker Paul Ryan and his advisors had been inclined to walk away from the healthcare battle after their initial defeat in March. As recently as this week, the bill appeared to be on the brink of failure, as Lisa Mascaro, Noam Levey and Sarah Wire wrote. But, prodded by President Trump and his aides, who worried about their lack of legislative accomplishments, the House leaders returned to the field. On Thursday, they got their bill through, just barely, 217-213. What would the new bill actually do? Levey has written a detailed side-by-side comparison with current law. It’s part of our series of primers on key aspects of the debate that we call Obamacare 101. The broad thrust of the bill is simple, however: It cuts hundreds of billions of dollars a year from federal spending on healthcare, which means millions of middle- and low-income Americans won’t be able to afford to go to the doctor. House Republicans say that if the federal government pulls back, states can pick up the slack. As Levey wrote, that approach has been tried before and has not worked, even in the biggest, wealthiest states. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that the earlier version of the bill would have taken healthcare coverage away from 24 million people. This time around, the House leadership didn’t wait to hear from the budget office before taking a vote. In exchange for the spending cuts, the bill eliminates $600 billion in taxes over the next 10 years. That gives several hundred thousand of the wealthiest Americans a very big tax cut. Republicans say they believe that will boost economic growth and make healthcare cheaper for those who are young and healthy. It may do both, but so far, that prospective trade-off is proving unacceptable to many voters. Since the election, when voters were evenly divided over whether they supported Obamacare, repeated polls by different organizations have shown a steady trend of growing support for the law as the GOP threatened to take it away. WHAT COMES NEXT? The healthcare debate now moves to the Senate. GOP leaders there already have signaled that they will throw out most of what the House has done and start over. Votes aren’t expected in the Senate before June at the earliest. Republicans have 52 votes in the Senate; they need 50 to pass the bill under the special procedures being used. That doesn’t leave much margin, and the division of opinions between centrist and conservative senators is wide. No one on either side expects any Democrats to vote for a bill that would repeal Obamacare. If the Republican senators can reach agreement, their bill would have to go back to the House. At that point, Ryan likely will have the same problem of getting conservatives to sign on to a bill that doesn’t fully meet their demands. Odds are that the healthcare debate will continue to dominate Washington at least into the summer and perhaps the fall. In the meantime, uncertainty about the future has encouraged several insurers to pull out of healthcare marketplaces. That’s left some places, including parts of Tennessee and Iowa, with few or no insurers for those who don’t get coverage through their jobs. That problem could get worse in coming months. As Cathy Decker wrote Friday, that means healthcare almost certainly will be a defining issue for the 2018 midterm elections. The healthcare debate could have particular impact in California, where half the Republican members of the delegation, 7 of 14, represent districts that Hillary Clinton carried in 2016. Every one of those potentially vulnerable Republicans voted for the healthcare bill, as Wire noted. Reps. Darrell Issa ( R- Vista) and Steve Knight ( R- Palmdale already were on Democrats’ lists of top targets for 2018. The healthcare vote could encourage Democrats to mount serious challenges to two Republicans in the Central Valley, Reps. David Valadao of Hanford and Jeff Denham of Turlock, and some, or all, of Orange County’s Reps. Dana Rohrabacher, Mimi Walters and Ed Royce. If Democrats do regain control of Congress and the White House — something that the pendulum swings of U. S. politics almost surely will bring about eventually — the experience of the last few years may push them to a more leftist position on healthcare. Now that Republicans have shown they will fight any health bill, even one like Obamacare that preserves the role of private insurance companies, why not just please liberals and go for a government-run system, some strategists argue. There are powerful policy reasons why a single-payer system would be harder to create than many Democrats would like to think: It requires a big tax hike and disrupts health plans that lots of Americans are happy with. But, as Melanie Mason reported, a bill to set up a single-payer system in California cleared its first committee hurdle this week. DIVIDES OVER SPENDINGThat 20 House Republicans voted against the healthcare bill illustrated the party’s divide on that issue. But on this week’s spending bill, 103 Republicans in the House deserted. That wide split in the GOP gave House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi considerable leverage in the negotiations. As a result, Trump got very few of his priorities in the bill, Mascaro wrote. One especially endangered priority is Trump’s proposed wall along the southwestern border, as Noah Bierman and Brian Bennett wrote. The wall got no money in the spending bill, and skepticism in Congress, including from many Republicans, means it will continue to be problematic in September, when the current bill expires. The impression that the White House is softening on the need for a full wall has angered some of Trump’s ardent backers. The Democrats’ crowing over their successes with the spending bill clearly hit a nerve with Trump, who sent out an angry tweet suggesting that maybe Republicans should try shutting down the government next time. Memoli looked at Trump’s reaction and its consequences. The divisions among Republicans are one of several reasons why Congress so far seems on track to get very little done this year, Mascaro wrote. DEMOCRATS DEBATE HOW FAR TO PUSHRepublicans aren’t the only divided party, of course. Decker takes a look at the divides in Democratic ranks, comparing the town hall receptions that recently met Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris. Even Pelosi has a Democratic primary challenger who thinks she isn’t liberal enough. Sound outlandish? Well, this is San Francisco, Mark Barabak writes: Meet Stephen Jaffe. The fervent Democratic opposition to Trump has made heroes of some longtime lawmakers on the party’s left. One of the most intriguing is Rep. Maxine Waters, the veteran South Los Angeles member of Congress. Sarah Wire looks at how she became “ Auntie Maxine” to a generation of younger activists. DEREGULATION AT WORKAs Evan Halper wrote, the Senate approved legislation that aims to block a plan by California to set up 401(k) retirement accounts for those who don’t get such plans at work. Illinois, Connecticut and other Democratic states had been planning to follow California’s lead, and the Obama administration had issued a rule that cleared federal obstacles. Now, those obstacles will be back. The bill is part of a push by Republicans to use a law known as the Congressional Review Act that allows them to wipe out rules that were adopted in President Obama’s final months in office. The deadline for using the review act is next week. Trump’s appointees, of course, don’t face a similar deadline, and they are working to undo other parts of Obama’s legacy. At the Federal Communications Commission, the prime target is rules to mandate so-called “net neutrality.” Jim Puzzanghera looks at the history of the net neutrality debate. TRUMP AND RELIGIONTrump issued an executive order Thursday on religious liberty, but after a big buildup, the actual order disappointed some religious conservatives. The order did so little that the ACLU dropped plans to go to court against it. The order was nothing but “an elaborate photo-op with no discernible policy outcome,” the head of the ACLU said after seeing the text of what Trump signed. That reaction fit a pattern of many of Trump’s executive actions — bold rhetoric followed by documents that don’t come close to achieving what the president claimed to be doing. TRUMP’ S FOREIGN POLICY TAKES SHAPEThe president has been praising dictators a lot. It fits a strategy, Brian Bennett and Tracy Wilkinson wrote. His U. N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, has taken a more traditional foreign policy line, criticizing Russia and stressing the U. S. commitment to human rights. That’s led to some conflicts with the White House, Wilkinson and Barbara Demick wrote. Meantime, the president has scheduled his first overseas trip. It will take him to Saudi Arabia and Israel, places where his penchant for off-the-cuff remarks could be risky, Wilkinson and Memoli wrote. In a meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas this week, Trump said that he thought negotiating a deal between Israel and the Arabs might be “not as difficult as people have thought.” Also on the itinerary — Rome for a meeting with Pope Francis and Brussels for a NATO summit. NO REGRETS, FBI CHIEF SAYSFBI Director James Comey testified in the Senate that he was “mildly nauseous” at the idea that he might have affected the outcome of 2016 presidential contest, but that if he had to do everything over again, he would have acted the same way. ALL THE PRESIDENT’ S TWEETSTwitter has long been Trump’s favored means of pushing his message. We’re compiling all of Trump’s tweets. It’s a great resource. Take a look. LOGISTICSThat wraps up this week. My colleague Sarah Wire will be back Monday with the weekday edition of Essential Politics. Until then, keep track of all the developments in national politics and the Trump administration with our Essential Washington blog, at our Politics page and on Twitter @latimespolitics. Send your comments, suggestions and news tips to politics@latimes.com. If you like this newsletter, tell your friends to sign up.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-tt-obama-speech-20170504-story.html
Barack Obama tempted by a $400,000 speech. David Horsey / Los Angeles Times Top of the Ticket cartoon Top of the Ticket cartoon ( David Horsey / Los Angeles Times) It is no secret I admire many things about Barack Obama. I like that he was intelligent and agile enough to keep the American economy from disintegrating after the 2008 economic implosion. I like how he faced up to the challenge of climate change. I like that he was the first president to push through a comprehensive healthcare plan. Even if it was a flawed compromise with the insurance industry, it moved the ball a long way toward providing healthcare for everyone. I like that he got Osama bin Laden. I like the many ways he was different from the current resident at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. I like that he was disdained by Vladimir Putin and adored by other Europeans instead of the other way around. I like that he was articulate, able to comprehend complexity and amazingly cool in a crisis instead of erratic and simplistic. I like that he was capable of delivering moments of inspiring oratory that tied together the many threads and colors in America’s historical tapestry instead of finding it difficult to express a coherent thought. I like that he could take a hit and respond with stoicism and sharp wit instead of being childishly petulant and vindictive. Perhaps more than anything, I like the example our 44th president and the first lady set as human beings living in the glare of constant public attention. Barack and Michelle were always classy and gracious with no hint of personal scandal. It is because I admire Obama that I am disappointed by his decision to take a $400,000 fee for a speech at a healthcare conference paid by a Wall Street bond firm, Cantor Fitzgerald. Ex-presidents getting paid big bucks for corporate speeches is not a new thing. Gerald Ford started the practice after his short stay in the White House. Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush got their post-presidential paydays, as well. As a prospective president, Hillary Clinton, played the game, too, and seriously undercut her candidacy in 2016 with a private chat that earned her $350,000 from Goldman Sachs. Obama should show he is different because he always claimed to be different. In his 2006 book, “ The Audacity of Hope,” Obama wrote about how the process of raising money from big-money donors distorts the perceptions of politicians. Confessionally, he said that “as a consequence of my fundraising I became more like the wealthy donors I met, in the very particular sense that I spent more and more of my time above the fray, outside the world of immediate hunger, disappointment, fear, irrationality, and frequent hardship of the other 99 percent of the population — that is, the people that I’d entered public life to serve.” Obama will never run for office again, but he is still, inescapably, in public life. He has said he intends to continue to serve the common good. He should start by refusing the $400,000, or, at a minimum, by donating most of it to a good cause. Barack Obama built a new kind of Camelot for a new generation David Horsey On election night in 2008, I took my college-age daughter and several of her friends to an election-watch event in downtown Seattle. TV network reports were projected on a huge screen and, when the presidential result was assured, the image shifted to the massive celebration in Chicago’s Grant... On election night in 2008, I took my college-age daughter and several of her friends to an election-watch event in downtown Seattle. TV network reports were projected on a huge screen and, when the presidential result was assured, the image shifted to the massive celebration in Chicago’s Grant... ( David Horsey) As smart and eloquent as Obama may be, his words are not worth that much money. No one’s words are. Rich guys on Wall Street are not paying hundreds of thousands of dollars just to hear an ex-president talk for 45 minutes; they are investing in their own prestige and influence by showing they can purchase a piece of the leader’s good name and reputation. If Republicans want to make that deal with the devil, let them. Democrats should shun the opportunity if they want to reclaim their place as champions of workers and the middle class. Right now, Obama is composing a memoir covering his years as president. The publication deal guarantees more than $65 million for him and his wife, who is also putting a book together. That is a ton of money, but the market justifies it. He is putting in long hours of effort on a product that will make plenty of money for his publisher. He is a good writer with a compelling story to tell. That story will be available for anyone who can buy a copy of the book or check one out at a library. However, the $400,000 speech is in a different category. It is a seduction. It will hurt his reputation, and he should know it. There is nothing wrong with giving speeches and getting paid a good fee, but receiving nearly half a million dollars is abnormal. It would only seem reasonable to the too-big-to-fail bankers, corporate CEOs and Wall Street financiers whose obscene compensation packages have so distorted the wealth gap in our country. A few people complain that Obama is being held to a different standard on this issue because he is black. That is wrong. He is being held to the standard he set for himself. David. Horsey@latimes.com Follow me at @davidhorsey on Twitter
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-bedminster-20170504-story.html
Trump National Golf Club Bedminster Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times President Trump owns the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in New Jersey. President Trump owns the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in New Jersey. ( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times) This secluded corner of New Jersey has been home to so many luminaries that it is barely worth the effort to drop all their names. Lamborghinis and Maseratis glide down what used to be quiet farm roads. It was once common to see Jacqueline Onassis passing through on her way to the annual foxhunt. The blase attitude toward fame in the township of Bedminster seems unlikely to change with its newest distinction: the favored summer retreat of President Trump, who is scheduled to spend this weekend there. “ Having a celebrity in town per se doesn’t move the needle much,’’ said Bedminster Mayor Steve Parker. “ Of course, when you have black limousines and the Secret Service and it’s the president of the United States that takes it up a notch.’’ The Trump National Golf Club Bedminster is already nicknamed the summer White House. Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times The Trump National Golf Club Bedminster is already nicknamed the summer White House. The Trump National Golf Club Bedminster is already nicknamed the summer White House. ( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times) The summer White House, as it is already being nicknamed, is located on the former estate of failed automaker John De Lorean. Trump bought it out of bankruptcy in 2002 and developed the property and neighboring parcels into the Trump National Golf Club. For more than a decade, the Trump family has summered at the club. His eldest daughter, Ivanka, was married at the clubhouse and Trump reportedly likes the place so much that he once spoke about being buried here. Until recently, the Trumps didn’t attract much notice in town, slipping in easily among the wealthy. Among the neighbors are Robert Wood " Woody" Johnson IV, owner of the New York Jets and Trump’s nominee for ambassador of the United Kingdom, and Steve Forbes, the publishing executive who ran twice for the GOP presidential nomination. Former New Jersey Gov. Tom Kean, another Republican, also lives in town.“ He was just another guy who came and developed the area,’’ Kevin Welsh, who runs a car dealership here, said of Trump. Bedminster (population about 8,000), an hour west of Manhattan, is not as flashy as the Hamptons, where rich New Yorkers head on the weekends to swim in the Atlantic and party with one another. There are only a handful of restaurants and shops. The estates are tucked behind uninterrupted expanses of green, making the entire town look like one big golf course. Bedminster, N. J., is a wealthy community with many horse farms. Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times Bedminster, N. J., is a wealthy community with many horse farms. Bedminster, N. J., is a wealthy community with many horse farms. ( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times) Unlike more secretive rich folk, the Trumps are hardly sequestered behind the gates of their estate. Many people in Bedminster said they’d mingled with Trump family members at the clubhouse and swimming pool.“ We’d go down to the pool and see them,” said Caitlin Swallow, 23, who works at the stables nearby. “ They interact with everybody else.” The Trump compound covers 535 acres. It has two 18-hole golf courses and various homes, one of which belongs to Ivanka Trump. The setup at Bedminster is similar to Mar-a- Lago, Trump’s resort in Palm Beach, Fla., which shuts down for the hot summer. Trump mingles with well-heeled guests who reportedly have paid up to $300,000 for their memberships.“ You are special people and this is a special place,’’ Trump told club members on his last visit, 10 days after the election, according to a tape recording that was obtained by Politico. Similar to his discussion of a North Korean missile launch in front of Mar-a- Lago diners who snapped photos for social media, Trump offered Bedminster members a glimpse into the formation of his Cabinet. Riding coach Caitlin Swallow, 23, says Bedminster, N. J., residents are used to famous people and pro Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times Riding coach Caitlin Swallow, 23, says Bedminster, N. J., residents are used to famous people and probably won't have any problems with President Trump's visits. Riding coach Caitlin Swallow, 23, says Bedminster, N. J., residents are used to famous people and probably won't have any problems with President Trump's visits. ( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times) “ You may wanna come around,” he said on the tape. “ It’ll be fun…. We’re going to be interviewing everybody — Treasury, we’re going to be interviewing secretary of State…. If you want to come around, it’s going to be unbelievable.” During that visit, Bedminster residents complained about the hours-long traffic jams behind a 14-car motorcade that blocked the Lincoln Tunnel coming out of New York and nearby roads. But otherwise, relations between Trump and the community appear to be harmonious. There is little sign of the friction that marred his relationship with Palm Beach County, which he’d sued for $100 million, claiming its international airport allowed planes to buzz Mar-a- Lago. Trump tweeted on Friday morning that after a reception in New York City on Thursday night he decided to go to Bedminster rather than his midtown home in Trump Tower, where security costs are estimated at more than $300,000 a day when the president is there.“ Rather than causing a big disruption in N. Y. C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N. J. this weekend. Also saves country money!‘’ he wrote. If protesters show up, they are unlikely to get within shouting distance of Trump. His residence inside the golf course is nearly a mile away from the main road, the turnoff of which is blocked by a guardhouse. Bedminster is largely Republican, like all five members of the township committee. Trump won by 42 votes here in November. The golf course is the second-largest taxpayer in town and has provided discounts to host numerous charity banquets for the Fire Department and Parent Teacher Organization.“ By and large, most Bedminster residents would view the golf course and Trump Organization as a positive force in town,” the mayor said. Nevertheless, there are worries about the burden on a Police Department that has only 18 officers. The township has asked for police help this weekend from neighboring communities and is likely to apply for federal assistance for the overtime costs of policing the roads during presidential visits. The mayor estimated there would be seven presidential visits over the summer and fall, which would cost the town a total of $300,000 for security. Some Bedminster residents are hoping that the presidential visits will give the business community a boost.“ Those Secret Service guys, they have to eat right?” said Janet Wagner, a retiree who was getting her hair done earlier this week. Longtime Bedminster resident Janet Wagner says she's is only worried about the traffic the president Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times Longtime Bedminster resident Janet Wagner says she's is only worried about the traffic the president's visit may cause. Longtime Bedminster resident Janet Wagner says she's is only worried about the traffic the president's visit may cause. ( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times)
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-trump-religious-freedom-20170504-story.html
Trump is encouraging pastors to push politics. Here's how that's gotten them in trouble before - LA Times Back Story Trump is encouraging pastors to push politics. Here's how that's gotten them in trouble before President Trump Evan Vucci / Associated Press President Trump signs an executive order asking the IRS to use "maximum enforcement discretion" regarding religious groups that get involved in partisan politics. President Trump signs an executive order asking the IRS to use "maximum enforcement discretion" regarding religious groups that get involved in partisan politics. ( Evan Vucci / Associated Press) Up for Senate reelection more than 60 years ago, Lyndon B. Johnson became gripped by fear that nonprofits were pumping large sums of cash into efforts to elect his opponent, a millionaire rancher and oilman named Dudley Dougherty. So Johnson, a Texas Democrat, got creative. In 1954, he pushed a new rule that would change the Internal Revenue Service tax code to say that tax-exempt nonprofits, including charities, churches and other religious groups, would be stripped of their tax status if they got involved in partisan politics, such as “directly or indirectly” supporting a candidate for office. Since then, the Johnson Amendment has perhaps caused the greatest division among groups historians say were probably not Johnson’s prime target: houses of worship and religious leaders. So when President Trump on Thursday signed an executive order saying he was essentially directing the IRS to stop investigating religious groups for preaching politics from the pulpit, conservative evangelicals cheered. They said it was a victory for religious freedom and free speech. They said pastors could now openly support politicians they agree with on issues like abortion and gay rights. Conservatives also praised a section of the order designed to allow religious groups to avoid a mandate to provide contraception coverage under President Obama's healthcare law, which would expand an exemption won through courts. At the same time, many liberal faith leaders bemoaned the president’s move on nonprofits. They said it would weaken the separation of church and state and detract from nonpartisan traditions of faith. The Union for Reform Judaism — the largest Jewish denomination in the country — said Trump’s move could open the floodgates to turn worship services into campaign rallies. But experts say the order, which does not change rules on the books but simply tells the IRS that it can ignore them, may not have a significant impact, largely because the anti-politicking rule has not been widely enforced. Since 2008, at least 2,000 pastors have taken part in Pulpit Freedom Sunday, a coordinated preaching effort across the U. S. in which they challenge the ban by getting political in sermons. According to Alliance Defending Freedom, a conservative legal group that promotes the event, the IRS has only investigated one church that participated. Since 1954, the IRS has rarely investigated nonprofits for endorsing campaigns. Americans United for Separation of Church and State says it has reported at least 124 houses of worship to the IRS since 1996 for "unlawful political activity." But only some of those reports have resulted in IRS warnings or investigations and fewer have led groups to lose their tax status. In 2004, the IRS launched a program called the Political Activities Compliance Initiative that investigated at least 82 religious groups for endorsing partisan politics in election cycles through 2008. But enforcement has slowed since 2009, when the IRS lost a lawsuit in Minnesota against the Living Word Christian Center, which had endorsed Republican Michele Bachmann to represent Minnesota in Congress. A judge tossed out the suit on a technicality. In a document that was released as part of a 2014 lawsuit filed by the Freedom from Religion Foundation based in Madison, Wis., the IRS wrote to the Department of Justice that there were 99 churches that merited “a high priority examination" for violations between 2010 and 2013. It's not clear whether all 99 were investigated. Here are some of the most prominent cases in which the Johnson Amendment was applied. Branch Ministries, New York In 1992, Branch Ministries, a church that operated under the name the Church at Pierce Creek, ran ads in newspapers including the Washington Times and USA Today against presidential candidate Bill Clinton.“ Christians Beware. Do not put the economy ahead of the Ten Commandments,” said the ads, which were published four days before the presidential election. “ Bill Clinton is promoting policies that are in rebellion to God's laws.”“ Tax-deductible donations for this advertisement gladly accepted,” said fine print in the ads. The federal government’s investigation into the organization lasted through 1995, when its tax-exempt status was revoked. The National Assn. for the Advancement of Colored People In July 2004, NAACP President Julian Bond criticized President George W. Bush in a speech, saying the president’s administration sowed racial divisions in the United States. The IRS launched an inquiry later that year. Bond said he thought it was politically motivated. Nearly two years after it started looking into the group, the IRS said the organization "continued to qualify" for its tax status." It was an enormous threat," Bond, who died in 2015, said in a news report on the investigation. “ The opposite outcome would have reduced our income remarkably." He said he interpreted the investigation’s conclusion to mean that the IRS “thought they had harassed us enough and they could stop.” All Saints Episcopal Church, Pasadena Two days before the 2004 presidential election, a guest speaker at All Saints Episcopal Church in Southern California gave a sermon in which he pitted Jesus debating against presidential candidates George W. Bush and John F. Kerry. The Rev. George F. Regas, the church’s former rector, did not make an endorsement. He said “good people of profound faith” could vote for Bush or Kerry. But he also strongly criticized the Iraq war and said Jesus would have said Bush’s Iraq strategy had “led to disaster.” The IRS opened an investigation into the sermon the next year, and wrote a letter to the church saying investigators thought the priest’s words were illegal. The agency’s accusation was based on its reading of a Los Angeles Times article from the time of the sermon. The article contained three paragraphs about Regas’ words in a summary of Sunday sermons ahead of the election. IRS officials wrote to the church in 2007 to say they had concluded the investigation. The IRS said it still thought the church had tried to influence votes but that officials would not revoke the church’s tax exemption. The Rev. J. Edwin Bacon Jr., who was the rector at the time, says he disagrees with Trump’s executive order.“ If you are going to be a Christian you will have to engage in policy advocacy, but there is a difference between partisan advocacy and politics. That is how we prevailed,” said Bacon, who left the church last year and lives in Birmingham, Ala. “ We had a very clear line between advocating for policies that were for ‘the least of these,’ which is essential to our faith, and the endorsement of any candidate. What we had done was criticized policies of officeholders.” Franklin Graham organizations In 2013, the Rev. Franklin Graham, son of the Rev. Billy Graham, wrote a letter to President Obama saying he believed the IRS was targeting two of his organizations for their conservative positions on social issues. Graham said his charities, the Billy Graham Evangelistic Assn. and Samaritan’s Purse, received letters the year before saying they were under examination. The IRS did not indicate why it was looking into the groups and it’s not clear that the Johnson Amendment was applied. But Graham said they were targeted because of advertisements run under their names. One ad was against same-sex marriage and another encouraged people to vote for “candidates who base their decisions on biblical principles and support the nation of Israel.” Graham, who advised Trump during his campaign, believed the IRS inquiry was part of a broader effort in which conservatives said the IRS was delaying the processing of paperwork and targeting groups with the phrase “tea party” and “patriot” in their names.“ After the election, we did receive official notice that our organizations continue to qualify for exemption from federal income tax, and that our returns were accepted as filed. Unfortunately, while these audits not only wasted taxpayer money, they wasted money contributed by donors for ministry purposes, as we had to spend precious resources servicing the IRS agents in our offices.… This is morally wrong and some would call it ‘un- American,’” Graham wrote.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-texas-sanctuary-law-20170504-story.html
Texas' new ban on 'sanctuary cities' could put police in jail if they fail to enforce immigration holds - LA Times Texas' new ban on 'sanctuary cities' could put police in jail if they fail to enforce immigration holds LA 90: Texas' SB4 passes Texas passed a bill to ban sanctuary cities. ( May 5, 2017)   Texas passed a bill to ban sanctuary cities. ( May 5, 2017)   Texas Gov. Greg Abbott was poised Thursday to sign the nation’s most stringent law yet to target “sanctuary cities,” a measure that could impose heavy fines or even jail time on local law enforcement officials who refuse to honor immigration detention requests. After weeks of heated debate, sit-ins and protests at the state Capitol in Austin, Texas lawmakers Wednesday night passed the sweeping bill that would ban sanctuary cities and allow police to inquire about the immigration status of anyone they detained, even those stopped for minor traffic violations. It would also force local officials to comply with federal immigration requests to detain those who are suspected of being in the country illegally. Police chiefs and county sheriffs who refuse to comply with federal requests, which are not mandatory under federal law, could face up to a year in jail. Cities, counties and colleges could also face stiff fines, from $1,000 to $25,500 a day. Abbott has said he will sign the bill in the coming days, and immigrant advocates are gearing up for a court fight. “ This is unprecedented,” said Angie Junck, supervising attorney at the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco, who argued the bill violated 4th Amendment protections against warrantless arrests without probable cause and raised concerns about racial profiling.“ It’s not only telling law enforcement to engage in unconstitutional behavior, but it’s then seeking to punish them for a crime,” she said. “ It’s astonishing.” The Texas legislation, Senate Bill 4, passed amid a fierce national debate on sanctuary cities, jurisdictions which decline to hold immigrants arrested for local crimes past their release date simply because immigration authorities want them detained for potential deportation proceedings. Shortly after his inauguration, President Trump issued an executive order on immigration that threatened to strip federal funds from cities that did not cooperate with federal immigration enforcement. That provision of the order is in legal limbo after a federal judge in Northern California temporarily blocked it last week, concluding that cities could prevail in their argument that placing new conditions on federal funds is unconstitutional. On Thursday, Maryland Atty. Gen. Brian E. Frosh issued a memo warning that state and local law enforcement officers were “potentially exposed to liability” if they honored immigration detainer requests — unless the request is accompanied by a judicial warrant or supported by information providing probable cause that the person has committed a crime. While other states have passed laws urging municipalities to assist federal immigration efforts — Mississippi’s governor signed a law in March that bars sanctuary jurisdictions — legal experts say the Texas bill is the first to explicitly make it mandatory to honor U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainers, with noncompliance subject to criminal penalties.“ This law takes some of the federal policies that we’ve seen and puts it on steroids,” Junck said. “ It seems this governor and the Texas Legislature are trying to outdo the federal government and design their own plan for deportations of residents and to create fear within anyone that’s in the immigrant community to drive them out of the state of Texas.” Abbott, who has promised he will “not tolerate sanctuary-city policies that put the cities of Texas at risk,” has signaled that he plans to sign the bill. Shortly after it won final legislative approval Wednesday, he wrote on Twitter: “ I’m getting my signing pen warmed up.” Legal experts say the Texas bill is even stricter than Arizona’s widely criticized 2010 law, SB 1070, that required police officers to demand the papers of people suspected of being in the country illegally. After a string of lawsuits and boycotts, that law was eventually amended. Republican officials who have supported the legislation say it is needed to ensure that those who have committed crimes and are in the country illegally are deported.“ SB 4 will ensure that no liberal local official can flaunt the law,” Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick said in a statement. “ This legislation will eliminate a substantial incentive for illegal immigration and help make Texas communities safer.” A wide range of opponents — immigrant advocates, Democratic legislators, police organizations and politicians from cities such as Austin and Houston with large immigrant populations — had made it a priority to defeat the bill.“ I am concerned that we’re the canary in the coal mine and other states will start attempting to pass draconian anti-immigrant laws,” said Gregorio Casar, an Austin city councilman who represents a heavily Latino part of north Austin. On Monday, he was one of two dozen protesters arrested and charged with trespassing after occupying the lobby of the governor’s office in protest of the bill.“ You’re going to see the people of Texas fight this law every single step of the way, because it’s unconstitutional, it’s dangerous, it’s bad for the economy and it isn’t the state’s business to be cracking down on immigrants,” Casar added. In turn, Republican Sen. Charles Perry, who wrote the bill, has accused opponents of fear-mongering. The bill, he has argued, provides “uniform application of the law without prejudice” to everyone in Texas.“ Banning sanctuary cities is about stopping officials who have sworn to enforce the law from helping people who commit terrible crimes evade immigration detainers,” he said in a statement. Police chiefs and sheriffs of major jurisdictions across Texas have spoken out against the bill, arguing that requiring local law enforcement to take a more active role in immigration enforcement will create fear among immigrant communities, foster distrust of police and eventually lead to an uptick in crime. Travis County Sheriff Sally Hernandez, who made headlines this year when she announced she would not voluntarily comply with federal requests to detain people solely on the basis of their immigration status, said the bill passed as a result of fear and misinformation.“ I am disappointed, because this is not in the best interest of public safety,” she said Thursday in a statement. “ It ties the hands of our law enforcement agency and pushes victims of crime into the shadows. While I hate seeing a state law like this come to pass, I have always followed the law and that will not change.” In an opinion piece published in the Dallas Morning News, David Pughes, interim chief of police in Dallas, and Art Acevedo, chief of police in Houston, wrote that the bill was “political pandering that will make our communities more dangerous.”“ Such a divide between the local police and immigrant groups will result in increased crime against immigrants and in the broader community, create a class of silent victims, and eliminate the potential for assistance from immigrants in solving crimes or preventing crime,” they said. In recent weeks, Texas Democrats and moderate Republicans worked desperately to try to tone down the bill. Last week, Democratic lawmakers in the Republican-dominated House wore all black as they engaged in a marathon overnight session to defeat the legislation. But after 16 hours of emotional debate, the bill that eventually passed the House 93 to 54 was stricter than previous versions. One late amendment, criticized by Democratic lawmakers, says police departments cannot discourage officers from inquiring about the immigration status of those who have been detained, even during routine traffic stops. Legal experts warn this would allow sheriff’s deputies and police officers to question a person’s legal status without having probable cause.“ It has gone from a bad bill to a worse bill,” Sen. Sylvia Garcia, a Democrat who represents Houston, warned in remarks to the Senate on Wednesday. She said she feared the legislation could lead to police harassment and profiling of Latinos.“ The last thing I want is ‘walking while brown’ to become reasonable suspicion,” she said. “ And, frankly, that is what will happen with this legislation — it doesn’t matter how much its supporters promise that this will not happen. It will happen.” Already, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrest more people in the state of Texas than in other state. From fiscal year 2014 through 2016, Texas received 58,452 federal immigration detainer requests, compared with 46,444 detainers issued in California, according to Syracuse University’s Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, which tracks immigration data. Federal agents took into custody 35,632 individuals in Texas based on those detainers, more than double the number in California.
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-pc-gov-brown-on-motor-voter-bill-20150917-story.html
Voting at Super Suds laundromat Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times Voters cast their ballots between the washers and dryers at their polling place set up at the Super Suds coin laundry in Long Beach in 2012. Voters cast their ballots between the washers and dryers at their polling place set up at the Super Suds coin laundry in Long Beach in 2012. ( Don Bartletti / Los Angeles Times) Targeting California’s recent record-low voter turnout, Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday signed a measure that would eventually allow Californians to be automatically registered to vote when they go the DMV to obtain or renew a driver’s license. The measure, which would also allow Californians to opt out of registering, was introduced in response to the dismal 42% turnout in the November 2014 statewide election. That bill and 13 others the governor signed Saturday, will "help improve elections and expand voter rights and access in California," Brown's office said in a statement. SIGN UP for the free Essential Politics newsletter >> Some 6.6 million Californians who are eligible to register to vote have not registered, according to Secretary of State Alex Padilla, who supported the legislation as a way to increase voter participation. Citizens should not be required to opt in to their fundamental right to vote. — Secretary of State Alex Padilla " The New Motor Voter Act will make our democracy stronger by removing a key barrier to voting for millions of California citizens," Padilla said Saturday. " Citizens should not be required to opt in to their fundamental right to vote. We do not have to opt in to other rights, such as free speech or due process." The law takes effect Jan. 1, but the new registration process will not be offered until the state completes work on a new voter registration database called Vote Cal, which is expected around June 2016, the time of the presidential primary election. Currently, driver’s license applicants are asked whether they want to register, and if they do, they are supposed to be given a paper registration form to fill out, although activists say that does not always happen. See the most-read stories this hour >> Read the story The new system would register applicants when they visit a Department of Motor Vehicles office to get a new license or renew an expiring one, unless they opt out, and without having to fill out a new paper form." It's removing the first barrier to voting, which is registration," said Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez ( D- San Diego), the bill's author, on Saturday. " It's going to lead to millions more Californians being registered to vote, which means more people we can talk to." Voting rights activists, including Cal PIRG Executive Director Emily Rusch, said the voter registration bill was much-needed medicine for a system that is ailing." A well-functioning democracy depends on the participation of its citizens," Rusch said, noting that the registration gap is most severe for young people. Only 52% of eligible youth 18-24 were registered to vote before the last election. Brown also signed a bill that permits county elections officials to offer  conditional voter registration and provisional voting at satellite offices during the 14 days immediately preceding Election Day. The measure would make voting more convenient, according to Sen. Benjamin Allen ( D- Santa Monica), the author of SB 439. Another bill signed by the governor will make voting more convenient by allowing voters who use vote-by-mail ballots to drop them off at secure boxes to be located throughout the community before election day. Boxes at shopping malls and libraries would make it easier to cast ballots, officials say. The measure by Sen. Fran Pavley ( D- Agoura Hills) requires the secretary of State to develop guidelines for the use of drop-off boxes, including security measures, by Jan. 1, 2017. NEWSLETTER:  Get the day's top headlines from Times Editor Davan Maharaj >> Pavley said there was some ambiguity in existing law that made her bill necessary. She noted that in the election last November, Los Angeles County, which has 10 million residents, had one drop-off location." This may have contributed to the fact that only 38% of voters in Los Angeles County used [vote-by-mai] -- nearly 20% lower than any other county in the state," Pavley said. The governor also signed a bill that will speed up election returns by allowing county elections officials to begin counting votes before the close of the polls on election day. Assemblyman Marc Steinorth ( R- Rancho Cucamonga) introduced that bill, AB 363. Brown also approved a bill allowing Monterey and Sacramento counties to hold some all-mail ballot elections, joining San Mateo and Yolo counties in experimenting with the practice. That measure, AB 1504, was introduced by Assemblyman Luis Alejo ( D- Watsonville). ALSOCalifornia sets new rules for medical pot industry Citing past budget anxiety, Gov. Brown vetoes several new tax credits Brown vetoes transparency bills for troubled state utilities commission UPDATES12:50 p.m.: This post has been updated with fresh comment from Assemblywoman  Lorena Gonzalez.12:48 p.m.: This post has been updated with with Gov. Brown's signing of a bill that allows officials to offer conditional voter registration and provisional voting during the 14 days immediately preceding election day. 12:32 p.m.: This post has been updated with details about other voting-related bills signed by Gov. Brown and comments from other lawmakers.12:12 p.m.: This post has been updated with fresh comment from Secretary of State Alex Padilla. This post was originally published at 12:05 p.m. Elections Jerry Brown Luis A. Alejo Alex Padilla
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-pc-citing-budget-gov-brown-vetoes-several-new-tax-credits-20151010-story.html
Jerry Brown Nick Ut / Associated Press California Gov. Jerry Brown speaks during the White House-organized U. S.- China Climate Leaders Summit in Los Angeles on Sept. 15. California Gov. Jerry Brown speaks during the White House-organized U. S.- China Climate Leaders Summit in Los Angeles on Sept. 15. ( Nick Ut / Associated Press) Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday vetoed nine bills that would have provided new tax credits to benefit California lawmakers' priorities, including low-income housing, energy efficient appliances, seismic retrofits, small businesses, food bank donations and hiring. Brown reminded lawmakers that when he took office in 2011 the state faced a $26.6-billion budget deficit and estimated shortfalls of $20 billion and it has taken tough measures to turn around the state's finances. He also said there are new budget issues on the horizon because lawmakers failed to deal with the expiration of a healthcare tax. SIGN UP for the free Essential Politics newsletter >>" Despite strong revenue performance over the past few years, the state's budget has remained precariously balanced due to unexpected costs and the provision of new services," Brown said in his veto message. " Now, without the extension of the managed care organization tax that I called for in special session, next year's budget faces the prospect of over $1 billion in cuts." " Given these financial uncertainties, I cannot support providing additional tax credits that will make balancing the state's budget even more difficult," he added. The bills rejected by the governor include one that was especially important for Los Angeles County because it would have provided a credit for seismic retrofitting of buildings not safe for earthquakes. See the most-read stories this hour >> Read the story Assemblyman Adrin Nazarian ( D- Sherman Oaks) proposed $12 million in annual credits that would cover 30% of qualified costs incurred in seismic retrofits. The veto of tax credits for affordable housing was criticized as a missed opportunity by Ray Pearl, executive director of the California Housing Consortium. " Affordable home builders in the state are dismayed by this shortsighted decision, but we are resolute in our goal to make homes for California’s workforce a priority once again," Pearl said in a statement. ALSOCalifornia sets new rules for medical pot industry New regulations don't clear all the hurdles for pot dispensaries Brown vetoes transparency bills for troubled state utilities commission
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-pol-ashley-madison-20150822-story.html
Ashley Madison website Carl Court / Getty Images The infidelity website was hacked by a group called Impact Team. The infidelity website was hacked by a group called Impact Team. ( Carl Court / Getty Images) Anxiety was high Friday in state, county and city offices after hackers released lists of dozens of government email addresses in California that were used to access the Ashley Madison online dating site for married people. Los Angeles County officials launched an investigation after 19 county email addresses were found on the list. Officials in Sacramento warned state workers of possible consequences after nearly 50 state government email addresses were also included. " Any misuse of state resources is a concern and is taken seriously and investigated accordingly," said Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for the state Government Operations Agency. The website, whose advertising line is, " Life is short. Have an affair," was hacked by a group called Impact Team. Earlier this week, it exposed the names, email addresses, credit card numbers and sexual preferences of up to 37 million users of the site. Interested in the stories shaping California? Sign up for the free Essential California newsletter >> Nearly 100 of the email addresses had the extension cal.gov, which is used by state agencies and some cities and other government agencies. A Times review found that many of the email addresses were not valid, but many others were working addresses attached to real government employees. Experts cautioned that some users of the free Ashley Madison site may have done so with other people's email addresses; the website did not require verification. Los Angeles County and the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority have begun separate reviews of whether any of their employees used government emails to access the site, officials said Friday. The database released by the hackers contained dozens of city, county and other local government email addresses, although it was not clear how many government employees had actually used work emails to log onto the site. The hacked data included 19 Los Angeles County-associated emails and 27 Los Angeles city emails — including Los Angeles Police Department addresses. It also included addresses associated with the Los Angeles Unified School District and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. NEWSLETTER:  Get the day's top headlines from Times Editor Davan Maharaj >>" Work email is created and set up and funded by the employer — in this case, the government — and it's inappropriate to use government email for personal purposes," said Jessica Levinson, a law professor and member of the city ethics commission. Los Angeles County spokesman Joel Sappell said interim Chief Executive Officer Sachi Hamai had referred the matter to the county's auditor-controller for investigation. He declined to comment further. Email addresses on the list included those for employees of the state departments of Transportation, General Services, Public Health, Corrections and Rehabilitation, Industrial Relations and Water Resources, as well as the state judiciary. No elected officials were on the list of government emails. Gledhill said state tech workers routinely check for evidence that state emails are being improperly used, and some have been found in the past. She would not say whether the state had linked any government emails to Ashley Madison. So far this year, state departments have been notified more than 100 times of possible misuse of email, she said. The email addresses were a hot topic at the state Capitol on Friday, workers said. One state employee whose email was on the list, and who spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to jeopardize his job, said he did not recall using the email to sign on to the Ashley Madison site. He said he might have done so just to see what the site was about. He said he has not used its services." I'm certainly not saying that there is no possibility that I created a profile. I just honestly don't have a recollection of doing so," the employee said. Another state worker said he was worried about the appearance of his email address on the hackers' list, but denied he ever paid for the website's service." I honestly can't remember if I ever visited the site out of curiosity," he said, adding, " I can't say I am 100% sure I never went into the site via pop-ups." Patrick.mcgreevy@latimes.com Abigail.sewell@latimes.com Twitter: @mcgreevy99, @sewella Mc Greevy reported from Sacramento, Sewell from Los Angeles. Times staff writer Anthony Pesce in Los Angeles contributed to this report. ALSO: Josh Duggar calls himself 'the biggest hypocrite,' admits cheating on wife California state government, L. A. County emails linked to Ashley Madison site Hacked infidelity website Ashley Madison offers free profile deletion
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-pol-california-politics-drought-20150802-story.html
Robert Gauthier / Los Angeles Times The banks of the North Haiwee Reservoir in Inyo County grow wider as California's drought continues. The banks of the North Haiwee Reservoir in Inyo County grow wider as California's drought continues. ( Robert Gauthier / Los Angeles Times) It's something of a relief, if a mixed one, that the drought has surged into the role of the latest scourge to freak out California. It's a relief in the sense that it means that the California economy, so recently frighteningly rocky, has receded as the top-billed problem facing the state, even if the recovery is more patchy and vulnerable than anyone might wish. But it's mixed, of course, because the drought carries its own dangers, and the ultimate solution — rain — remains wholly out of the power of politicians or everyday Californians. Water and Power is The Times' guide to the drought. Sign up to get the free newsletter >> Fresh signs arrived last week that Californians are taking the drought seriously — and taking it seriously across the state, which has not always been the case during past droughts. State water officials announced Thursday that urban water users had exceeded Gov. Jerry Brown's demand in June by trimming usage by 27%. That followed a May cutback of almost 29%, which, like June's figure, was above Brown's mandatory 25% cut. California is entering its fourth consecutive year of drought, and for the second consecutive year the Legislature will consider emergency drought relief. The other sign that residents are taking the state's water woes seriously was a new poll by the Public Policy Institute of California, which said that almost 6 in 10 people considered the drought the most important environmental issue facing California. A year ago, only 35% of Californians held the same view. The drought has set off alarms about the longer-term effects of global warming, the poll found. All told, almost 2 in 3 Californians said climate change had contributed to the current drought. It was a view held in all areas of the state, dissolving the usual split between coastal liberals and inland conservatives. Look up drought report cards for every water district Open link #drylands CA: A road trip during California's drought >> Asked if climate change poses a threat to California's economy and quality of life, 79% of residents said it did. That question underscored the fact that the state's burgeoning ranks of minority voters are driving environmental concerns: 90% of Latinos saw climate change as a threat, as did 88% of Asians and blacks. A smaller 70% of white voters were similarly concerned. The high level of concern, if sustained, could reinforce political change. The poll found that nearly two-thirds of Californians wanted the state to set its own climate change policy and not leave it to the federal government, a view shared by Brown, a Democrat, and his predecessor, Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger, both of whom have pushed California to be ahead of the pack. The political potency of the drought could also be seen in two unrelated events. On Thursday, Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom announced a challenge to entrepreneurs to solve the state's water needs. The winning teams will work with the Silicon Valley-based Singularity University, which will connect them with tech experts and potential financial backers. Newsom, in a statement, said his goal was "to activate the incredible talent and ingenuity of Californians and the SU global community to solve 21st century challenges with 21st century solutions." The second occurrence has blanketed the radio airwaves in Southern California for weeks. The traffic-stalled have heard Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti bantering in two ads with comedian and actor Steve Carell about water. Specifically, the wasting of it." You know the water's still running, right?" Garcetti says to Carell in one, after Carell notes that he's brushing his teeth." Do I get a ticket?" Carell replies." No, Steve. But every Angeleno needs to pitch in and save water," Garcetti says. In a second ad, Garcetti gently upbraids Carell's neighbor for watering the lawn for three days running." How about we politely let our neighbors know that outdoor watering is limited to two days a week?" Garcetti says." Can we scream those words?" Carell asks." No, Steve, but maybe you could come up with a fun creative way to say it?" Garcetti responds, before the two settle on the slogan " Twice is Nice." Both Newsom and Garcetti have undeniable public roles in warning Californians about the limited supply of water and conjuring ways to improve it down the road. Newsom is the second in command of the state, albeit in an often frustrating role with few defined responsibilities unless the governor is out of state. ( Newsom was acting governor during Brown's recent visit to Italy.) Garcetti is chief executive of the state's biggest city, a place that in past droughts didn't get with the water-saving program entirely. But the duo's political ambitions also could be seen in their embrace of drought solutions. Newsom has already announced his run for governor in 2018, and will be positioning himself as a candidate who gets the new sharing economy and would blast apart what he considers archaic bureaucracies that don't deliver the swift and personalized service Californians have come to expect from companies like Amazon. The drought challenge fits in, as it seeks to mine new technologies to solve a problem that has confounded California regularly over generations. Garcetti is widely believed to have statewide aspirations, but surely knows that Los Angeles politicians have a lousy track record in seeking the governorship or a U. S. Senate seat, particularly when running against candidates from the more politically active north. The mayor has multiple needs in the coming years, but chief among them are running the city in a way that leaves him popular and broadening his reach to voters who live outside the borders of Los Angeles. Conveniently, the radio ads are broadcast across all of Southern California, potentially introducing Garcetti to millions of voters to whom he is less known — and with a subject that most in the state find hugely important.cathleen.decker@latimes.com Twitter: @cathleendecker For more on politics, go to www.latimes.com/decker. Politics and Government Droughts and Heat Waves Eric Garcetti California Drought Gavin Newsom Weather Jerry Brown
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-palmdale-council-mayor-investigation-20170505-story.html
Palmdale city councilman calls on mayor to take leave of absence during D. A.'s investigation - LA Times Jim Ledford Los Angeles Times Palmdale Mayor Jim Ledford in 2016. Palmdale Mayor Jim Ledford in 2016. ( Los Angeles Times) A Palmdale city councilman asked Mayor Jim Ledford to take a leave of absence after the Los Angeles district attorney’s office served search warrants at the mayor’s City Hall office and home this week. City Councilman Austin Bishop said that several steps need to be taken to maintain the city’s integrity in light of the investigation into Ledford, who has come under fire, in part, because of a consulting job for which he was paid roughly $180,000 from 2010 to 2013. “ We ask Mayor Ledford, in light of both his years of service, and the seriousness of this investigation, to take a voluntary leave of absence from all duties of the Office of Mayor until this investigation is complete,” Bishop said in a statement released Friday. “ This will show ours and his commitment to put our residents first, and allow him to resume his duties should he be exonerated.” The district attorney’s office served search warrants at Ledford’s City Hall office and home on Wednesday, according to Ledford’s former campaign manager and a city spokesman. Prosecutors served warrants at four additional locations, according to a spokeswoman for the district attorney’s office, who declined to disclose those locations or to comment on the nature of the investigation. Bishop, 29, said he became aware that warrants were being served Wednesday morning when the acting city manager called him. He last spoke with Ledford on Tuesday evening at the end of a City Council meeting. The mayor has kept a low profile since the warrants were executed, according to Bishop, who said Ledford did not appear at a scheduled meeting Wednesday. “ I’m not sure where Ledford is,” he said. Bishop said that it is his understanding that any elected official who is under investigation cannot take part in City Council votes. “ We want everything to go back to normal in a sense,” Bishop said while standing in the Antelope Valley Fairgrounds. “ We want the D. A. to get to the bottom of this, and once everything is sorted out we can go from there.” Ledford, 63, has served as Palmdale’s mayor since 1992 and coasted to reelection in 2016. The city does not have term limits. Calls and emails to Ledford seeking comment have not been returned since Thursday morning. A city spokesman declined to comment on Bishop’s call for Ledford to take a leave of absence. A law enforcement official told The Times on Thursday that prosecutors are looking into a “quid pro quo” relationship involving Ledford but declined to elaborate. The official requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case. Part of the investigation involves a job Ledford took with a Complex Culture Change Consulting in Palmdale, which paid him nearly $180,000 between 2010 and 2013, according to court transcripts and the mayor’s former campaign manager, Kamal Al- Khatib. Palmdale mayor's former consulting job may have sparked investigation, search of City Hall Benjamin Oreskes, James Queally, Richard Winton A search warrant was served Wednesday night at the offices and home of Palmdale Mayor Jim Ledford as part of an investigation involving his past employment with a consulting firm that paid him nearly $200,000, according to city officials and the mayor’s former campaign manager. Members of the Los... A search warrant was served Wednesday night at the offices and home of Palmdale Mayor Jim Ledford as part of an investigation involving his past employment with a consulting firm that paid him nearly $200,000, according to city officials and the mayor’s former campaign manager. Members of the Los... ( Benjamin Oreskes, James Queally, Richard Winton) During a 2013 deposition in an unrelated lawsuit against the city, Ledford said he researched educational conferences for the firm but struggled to explain or provide evidence of any actual work he produced, court records show. Lancaster Mayor R. Rex Parris, a fierce opponent of Ledford who was serving as an attorney for the plaintiffs in that case, has said Ledford essentially took a no-show job from people who benefited from City Council decisions. The head of the consulting firm that hired Ledford, Susan Miller, was also the executive director of the Aero Institute in Palmdale, which leased a rent-free building from the city during the time Ledford was employed by the firm, according to the 2013 deposition. The Aero Institute was also one of the locations where a warrant was served on Wednesday, according to a city spokesman. An employee who answered the phone at the Aero Institute hung up when contacted by a Times reporter on Thursday. A complaint about Ledford’s consulting job and relationship with the Aero Institute and Miller was also filed with the California Fair Political Practices Commission in 2013, records show. City Hall and the Aero Institute were closed Friday. No one answered the door at the home of the institute’s president, Kimberly A. Shaw. No one answered the door at Ledford’s home. One of his neighbors looked down from her second-floor balcony. She declined to give her name and shrugged her shoulders when asked when she last saw the mayor. “ He’s my friend. I support him,” she said. Bertha Terry, who lives a couple of doors down from the mayor’s home, said she saw a swarm of police appear at Ledford’s door Wednesday morning about 7:30 a.m.“ I was like ‘ What happened?’” she said. “ I thought one of the neighbors had died or something.” Patricia Salazar, who cleans homes and works as an organizer for an immigrant rights organization, said she didn’t know the mayor lived on her block until this week. She said she likes Ledford because of his work on behalf of immigrants in the U. S. illegally, and knocked on doors in support of his last mayoral bid in 2016. Noting that the investigation may “center around Ledford’s relationship with certain city contractors,” Bishop said the city should consider suspending financial relationships with any businesses involved in the district attorney’s review. On Thursday, Miller declined to explain the consulting firm’s purpose or describe what Ledford did during his time employed there. The firm was shut down in 2013, and Miller said she spoke with the district attorney’s office four years ago but declined to offer specifics. Al- Khatib, his former campaign manager, has insisted the investigation is a politically motivated witch hunt driven by Parris and other Ledford enemies. Bishop downplayed such speculation Friday. “ I think people like to run wild with stories, but I don’t really believe our district attorney would go put all this on the city unless they have sufficient evidence,” he said. “ I don’t think anyone tells the D. A. what to do.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-trump-investigate-20170505-story.html
Bob Blumenfield Al Seib / Los Angeles Times Los Angeles City Councilmen Bob Blumenfield and Mike Bonin at a City Council meeting last year. Los Angeles City Councilmen Bob Blumenfield and Mike Bonin at a City Council meeting last year. ( Al Seib / Los Angeles Times) The Los Angeles City Council wants to know whether President Trump violated federal law by using the office of the presidency to enrich himself or his family. On a 10-0 vote, the council on Friday passed a resolution asking Congress to investigate whether Trump violated the Constitution’s foreign emoluments clause or committed any other high crimes and misdemeanors that could lead to impeachment. The clause is designed to ensure that presidents aren’t influenced by gifts or aid from a foreign government. The resolution was authored by Councilman Bob Blumenfield, who represents the western San Fernando Valley. “ It’s putting the city of L. A. on record to investigate Trump,” said Blumenfield spokesman Jake Flynn. He acknowledged that the resolution has no legal weight. Flynn said Trump’s relationship with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte should be investigated in light of a new 57-story Trump Tower in Manila that is set to open soon. The Philippines president’s deadly tactics against suspected drug dealers have been widely criticized by human rights groups. Blumenfield’s office worked on the resolution with West Valley Resistance, a group that supports investigating Trump for possible impeachable offenses. Similar resolutions have been passed in Richmond, Alameda and Berkeley, Calif., as well as Cambridge, Mass., and other cities and towns, according to the group. Councilman Mitch Englander, the only Republican on the City Council, was absent during Friday’s vote. Also missing were Councilmen Jose Huizar, Paul Koretz and Joe Buscaino. Englander explained in a statement that he purposely missed the vote." I walked out because I did not feel that voting to impeach a president was under the purview of the Los Angeles City Council," he said. " We should be focusing on public safety, fixing our roads and cleaning up our neighborhoods."
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-airbnb-money-20170503-story.html
With Garcetti's budget relying on millions from Airbnb, will L. A. still clamp down on short-term rentals? - LA Times With Garcetti's budget relying on millions from Airbnb, will L. A. still clamp down on short-term rentals? Short Term Rentals Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times An overflow crowd fills the L. A. City Council chamber in June 2016 as the planning commission considers imposing new regulations on short-term rentals. An overflow crowd fills the L. A. City Council chamber in June 2016 as the planning commission considers imposing new regulations on short-term rentals. ( Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times) Worried about homes being operated like hotels, Los Angeles lawmakers have been weighing new regulations that would cap the number of nights Angelenos can rent out their homes for short stays. But when Mayor Eric Garcetti proposed his budget, he banked on allowing Airbnb rentals to continue without those kind of restrictions. City officials say the plan assumes the “status quo” on such rentals, which are already sending tens of millions in tax revenue to the city, because new rules have yet to be approved. Relying on that money has nonetheless troubled some city lawmakers, neighborhood activists and representatives of the hotel industry, who fear that Los Angeles could face pressure to adopt looser regulations to avoid hurting its bottom line. Airbnb, for instance, has asserted that current proposals to restrict its rentals could cost the city some $15 million in tax revenue. If the city ends up depending on that money, it could “build up a fiscal firewall against sensible regulations” on Airbnb and similar platforms, said City Councilman Mike Bonin, who has pushed to bar Angelenos from renting out a home for short stays if it is not their primary residence. “ I don’t know if the budget committee is going to accept that.” Renting out rooms or whole homes for short stays is currently barred in many neighborhoods, according to the planning department. But those rules are rarely enforced. The phenomenon has exploded with the rise of online platforms such as Airbnb and Home Away, which link travelers to hosts offering places to stay. Airbnb and its backers say hosting travelers is an economic lifeline to homeowners and a boon for local businesses, bringing tourist spending to new parts of the city. But critics counter that without regulations, some homes and apartments have been rented out constantly like hotels, disrupting neighborhoods and displacing tenants. L. A. is still debating rules that would legalize and restrict such rentals. But as that plan slowly works its way through City Hall, Los Angeles is already taxing some of them: Under an agreement with Airbnb struck last year, the company is charged with collecting lodging taxes from its hosts and passing the money along to the city. City officials estimate that by the end of June — 10 months after the money started flowing — Airbnb rentals will have yielded more than $27 million in lodging taxes. The company argues that such rentals increase that tax revenue overall by bringing new travelers to Los Angeles. The budget proposed by Garcetti for next year includes more than $33 million from Airbnb and any other rental platforms that agree to collect lodging taxes, part of his plan to close an estimated $263-million shortfall. It is one of several sources of revenue that hinge on upcoming policy decisions at City Hall, along with money from digital billboards and a development fee. Assistant City Administrative Officer Benjamin Ceja said that when it comes to existing sources of revenue such as the lodging taxes, the standing practice has been to assume the “status quo” because “the unknown impact of policy decisions and timeline for implementation can be difficult to accurately predict and quantify.” Airbnb has warned that revenue could be slashed by proposed restrictions. In a recent letter to lawmakers, it estimated that a proposal that caps such rentals at 180 days annually — an idea already backed by the planning commission and a council committee — would knock $15 million off an estimated $37 million in annual funding for the city. [ Tax money from short-term rentals] has become a sort of drug that they have a hard time saying no to. — Judith Goldman, co-founder of Keep Neighborhoods First, which wants to cap short-term rentals at 60 days a year. The Los Angeles Short Term Rental Alliance, which includes hosts who use Airbnb, Home Away and other platforms, has also warned against caps.“ If you cut the number of days in half, there’s no way that you can get the same amount of revenue,” said its executive director, Robert St. Genis. “ Why would the city want to turn away opportunities to increase revenue?” The hotel industry has disputed the idea that city revenues are at risk. Lynn Mohrfeld, president and chief executive of the California Hotel & Lodging Assn., argued that if the city restricts Airbnb and similar platforms, many travelers would instead go to hotels that also collect lodging taxes. In addition, he said, more Angelenos might sign up as Airbnb or Home Away hosts to meet the demand.“ I just don’t buy the premise that if you limit it, people are going to go away,” Mohrfeld said. Neighborhood activists and housing advocates concerned about “commercialized” rentals have urged the city not to rely on the predicted revenue from taxing Airbnb rentals. Many were leery when the city first struck the tax agreement, fearing it would discourage future regulations. Now they say the proposed budget bears out those fears. The tax money “has become a sort of drug that they have a hard time saying no to,” said Keep Neighborhoods First co-founder Judith Goldman, whose group wants to cap short-term rentals at 60 days annually. “ We can’t allow City Hall to make decisions based on the bottom line instead of the good of our city.” In a written statement, Garcetti spokesman George Kivork said that the mayor supports “reasonable regulations of short-term rentals” like the proposed rules backed by the planning commission. Those draft regulations included a cap of 180 days annually, as well as registration requirements and other restrictions. But “the budget reflects the current collection agreement with Airbnb, as final council approved policy is still pending,” Kivork wrote. Airbnb did not weigh in specifically on the budget plan, but its Los Angeles deputy policy manager, Connie Llanos, said in a written statement that the company was eager to adopt “common sense home sharing rules that empower our hosts and protect the quality of life in our neighborhoods.” At a recent hearing at City Hall, Councilwoman Nury Martinez asked city staffers to provide their own estimates of how different regulations might affect the lodging tax revenue. However, Martinez stressed that she did not want the budget item to decide what rules they would ultimately impose. Financial officials point out that even after the budget is adopted, the city can adjust its plans if revenues shift. Ceja, the assistant city administrative officer, said that “if and when policies are adopted that impact the assumed revenue for the year, this office will report on options to address any revenue shortfalls.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-hollywood-target-struck-down-20170502-story.html
Judge orders Target to stop building Hollywood shopping center A judge has called for retail giant Target Corp. to stop work on a partly built shopping center in Hollywood, handing a stinging setback to a project championed by Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. A judge has called for retail giant Target Corp. to stop work on a partly built shopping center in Hollywood, handing a stinging setback to a project championed by Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. A judge has delivered a humiliating new legal defeat to Los Angeles elected officials, striking down the city’s approval of a Hollywood Target shopping center for the second time in three years. Target’s partially built, three-story structure has sat empty since 2014, when Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Richard L. Fruin Jr. concluded that the City Council’s approval of the project violated planning rules. Council members responded two years later by approving new zoning for the site, but that vote drew a new legal challenge. Last week, Fruin ruled that the council’s do-over on the project also violated the law. City officials, he said, failed to properly examine the environmental effects of its new zoning mechanism on the larger neighborhood. The decision means that Target, which first filed an application to build the project in 2008, will continue to be prohibited from finishing construction. A lawyer for the La Mirada Avenue Neighborhood Assn., which sued to stop the project, said Target should respond to the ruling by demolishing the structure and building a store that is no taller than 35 feet — considerably shorter than the current project — and in accordance with planning and zoning rules.“ We think that would be the proper outcome,” said Robert P. Silverstein, the neighborhood group’s attorney. “ Compliance with the law has always been the focus of this litigation.” Read the judge's ruling that stopped the Hollywood Target shopping center Open link Kristy Welker, a Target spokeswoman, said company officials are disappointed with the decision and “evaluating next steps.” Rob Wilcox, spokesman for City Atty. Mike Feuer, declined to say whether the city will appeal Fruin’s decision. “ We are reviewing the ruling and will be advising our client accordingly,” he said in an email. Citizens Coalition Los Angeles, a second plaintiff, had also challenged the Target project. The Target decision follows a string of legal setbacks for City Hall on real estate development. Last week, a different judge ruled that the council failed to comply with the state’s environmental law when it approved a Frank Gehry-designed mixed-use complex at Sunset and Crescent Heights boulevards. Over the last five years, judges have also struck down the city’s approval of Sunset and Gordon, a 299-unit apartment building, and the Millennium skyscraper project — both in Hollywood. In addition, a judge ordered the council to repeal its 2012 Hollywood Community Plan update, which sought to allow taller and more dense development along Hollywood’s transit corridors. Planning officials are hoping for a new council vote on that plan later this year. Councilman Mitch O’ Farrell, who represents part of Hollywood said through a spokesman that he is disappointed and wants to see the project completed. A spokesman for Mayor Eric Garcetti said the mayor does not discuss ongoing legal matters. The legal dispute over Target has centered, in part, on the rules governing the height of buildings near several Hollywood subway stations. The zoning for the Target site originally limited shopping centers to 35 feet, unless they incorporate housing. The council voted in 2012 to allow Target to build a 74-foot-tall structure, saying the company would face an “unnecessary hardship” if it had to comply with the height rules. Target’s lawyer said at one point that the company pursued a taller project at the request of Garcetti, who was then a councilman representing Hollywood, and community members. Garcetti pushed for the additional height to ensure that the project would have more amenities on the first floor. Fruin said in his 2014 ruling that Target could have complied with the city’s height rules had it built an underground parking garage at a cost of at least $5 million. The judge ordered the city to invalidate the project’s building permits, halting construction. After that ruling, the council amended its zoning for the site, allowing Target to build up to 75 feet without constructing any housing. Silverstein, the La Mirada Avenue Neighborhood Assn.’s lawyer, said the city needed to conduct an environmental review of the change, arguing that other property owners in the area could seek the same zoning. Fruin agreed, saying the city did not examine the “foreseeable environmental effects” of having other developers in the neighborhood applying to build 75-foot-tall shopping centers.“ New retail uses predictably will have traffic, noise, air pollution and [greenhouse gas] emission impacts,” he wrote. The latest ruling dismayed Leron Gubler, president of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce, who said the ruling would hurt low-income families in the neighborhood.“ More than 250 permanent jobs have been in limbo,” he said. “ The community needs those jobs and the shopping opportunities.” Silverstein said the project already would have been finished had Target followed the city’s rules.
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-essential-california-20170502-story.html
Essential California: Two L. A. sheriff's officials promoted to high ranks despite histories of serious discipline - LA Times Newsletter Essential California: Two L. A. sheriff's officials promoted to high ranks despite histories of serious discipline 90 seconds: 4 stories you can't miss With a $1-trillion spending bill, Congress is set to deliver President Trump his first big bipartisan win, Mexico is one of the world's deadliest places for journalists, Pandora — The World of Avatar will open on May 27 in Florida and a May Day rally drew thousands to downtown L. A.  Credits: Jessica Q. Chen / Myung Chun / Jay L. Clendenin / Gary Coronado / KTLA With a $1-trillion spending bill, Congress is set to deliver President Trump his first big bipartisan win, Mexico is one of the world's deadliest places for journalists, Pandora — The World of Avatar will open on May 27 in Florida and a May Day rally drew thousands to downtown L. A.  Credits: Jessica Q. Chen / Myung Chun / Jay L. Clendenin / Gary Coronado / KTLA Good morning, and welcome to the Essential California newsletter. It’s Tuesday, May 2, and here’s what’s happening across California: TOP STORIES Disciplined sheriff’s officials get promoted Despite having histories of serious discipline within the department, two L. A. sheriff's officials were recently promoted. The action runs the risk of “putting people in supervisory positions who are compromised,” said Sam Walker, a retired criminal justice professor at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. “ People know their records,” he said, adding that it is difficult for supervisors to punish one of their underlings if they themselves have a history of serious discipline. Los Angeles Times May Day protests fill downtown L. A. The electronic screen hanging over a stage outside City Hall in downtown Los Angeles on Monday morning seemed to encapsulate the message of this year’s May Day protests in one word: Resist. Thousands of demonstrators gathered in downtown Los Angeles on Monday in a series of protests that took aim at President Trump’s policies on immigrants here illegally. Los Angeles Times Who is funding the candidates? The small field of candidates hoping to succeed Gov. Jerry Brown next year has been raking in cash. So far the five candidates have raised more than $20 million, with Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom raising $11.8 million. Asian American business leaders have contributed large sums to John Chiang, while Antonio Villaraigosa has reached out to wealthy Angelenos. Los Angeles Times Losing the housing race Developers in California are adding homes, relative to population growth, at a far higher pace than in recent years. But it’s still below what experts believe would be enough to keep up with California’s growing population, which topped 39.5 million last year. Los Angeles Times L. A. STORIESWriters strike averted: After several weeks of tense negotiations, the Writers Guild of America has reached a tentative deal with the major studios and networks for a new film and TV contract, avoiding disruption to productions nationwide. Los Angeles Times Senator in the spotlight: Sen. Kamala Harris follows in a long tradition of newcomer senators who enter office with a high profile and a desire to get things done. Harris has leveraged the pushback to the Trump presidency to become a key figure in the resistance movement. CNNWho is in the jail? The Twin Towers Correctional Facility is home to about 4,000 mentally ill inmates, which is about 30% of the county's total jail population. This makes it likely the largest home of mentally ill inmates in the country. Associated Press Building fights in the Valley: Welcome to Pacoima, where a charter school and L. A. Unified have worked together on the building of innovative classrooms, even as the school system and charter association battle in court over funds for future construction projects. Los Angeles Times IMMIGRATION AND THE BORDERWill the wall get built? President Trump’s “big beautiful wall” is not in the $1-trillion spending plan to keep the government open through September, and Congress hasn’t shown much appetite for the idea. Los Angeles Times The final green-card lottery? Even as Trump calls for dramatic restrictions on immigration, millions of people are hoping to win what could be the last U. S. green-card lottery. Washington Post Inside a detention center: California’s largest immigration detention center is near San Bernardino. There are more than 1,800 immigrants there awaiting hearings or deportation after being arrested by U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. Reuters Cross-border bid: Meet the Cetys University women’s volleyball team, which is hoping to become the first Mexican member of the NCAA. New York Times POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT Drilling site complaints: Los Angeles city officials say that an oil drilling site at a Westside golf course has flouted city rules by repeatedly installing new equipment without city approval. Los Angeles Times Deduct the deduction? A closer look at the proposed elimination of the federal deduction for local and state income taxes, a key aspect of the Trump tax plan. It is something that residents of high-income states such as California rely on to lower their tax rate. Californians deducted $101 billion in state income taxes in 2014, by far the most of any state. Los Angeles Times How city employees’ pay stacks up: San Jose’s city manager and police chief led their counterparts at more than 200 other California cities in pay and benefits in 2016, and other Bay Area public employees received hundreds of thousands of dollars in overtime pay, new compensation data released Monday show. The Mercury News What a meltdown: Joe Bray- Ali’s campaign for L. A. City Council has crashed hard, but maybe voters and political observers should’ve seen it coming. LA Weekly CRIME AND COURTS More details about the San Diego shooting: The man who opened fire on a pool party at a luxury San Diego apartment complex Sunday was distraught over a recent breakup and called his ex-girlfriend as he fired round after round, police said Monday. Peter Selis, a 49-year-old car mechanic who had been struggling with massive financial debt in recent weeks, killed one person and wounded several others before being fatally shot by police. Los Angeles Times A law stands: The U. S. Supreme Court has again rejected a challenge to California’s ban on so-called gay conversion therapy, letting the 2012 law stand without comment. A San Diego minister and others had argued the law violated their 1st Amendment religious freedoms. Los Angeles Times THE ENVIRONMENT Wildfire: A fast-moving wildfire that threatened homes in Riverside County on Sunday grew to at least 1,350 acres early Monday, officials said. Los Angeles Times Melting snow: The Sierra snowpack is huge — and melting fast. This could lead to large amounts of flooding this spring and into the summer. Sacramento Bee Fun story: Here’s how a fishing boat in Sausalito is being used to save the state’s salmon population. ABC 7 CALIFORNIA CULTURE A new arts center: Cheech Marin is teaming with the city of Riverside and the Riverside Art Museum to develop a Chicano art center. “ It’ll be the one place worldwide that everybody can go to for all things Chicano art,” Marin said. Los Angeles Times Where to go: Here are the some of the best things to eat in the Bay Area. San Francisco Chronicle Where to go, Part 2: The Los Angeles Times Food Bowl began yesterday and goes all month. Here’s a list of all the events that will happen. Los Angeles Times Fun for the summer: An iconic Mid- City roller rink, World on Wheels, will reopen this summer. LAist CALIFORNIA ALMANAC Sacramento and Los Angeles area: partly cloudy Tuesday, sunny Wednesday. San Diego and San Francisco area: sunny Tuesday and Wednesday. More weather is here. AND FINALLY Today’s California memory comes from Glenn Davis:“ The morning after the Rodney King verdict, I boarded a British Airways jet nonstop for LAX. I was in training for a commercial pilot rating at the time so knew our approach to L. A. would be ‘different.’ The pilot explained we were going out over Malibu (instead of the usual 52-mile straight-in approach) and landing downwind — as people were shooting at planes approaching the runways from the land side. Our 747 kept some extra speed to do that landing safely, then I was met by a driver in baggage claim to take me home to Irvine. The driver explained that the 405 was closed, but he was going to take it anyway, as it was the fastest way home, and no one was patrolling an empty freeway. In the car, he told me to get down behind the seats and don't show my head. He was driving well in excess of 100 mph when we approached Long Beach. He told me to get up and look at the city — which seemed like a wall of flame. My sister was attending a convention there and was trapped in the Sheraton ( I later found out) for four days.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-foster-kids-schools-20170501-story.html
Supervisor Kathryn Barger Kirk Mc Koy / Los Angeles Times Supervisor Kathryn Barger introduced a motion to keep foster children from having to change schools every time they are relocated to a new home. Supervisor Kathryn Barger introduced a motion to keep foster children from having to change schools every time they are relocated to a new home. ( Kirk Mc Koy / Los Angeles Times) The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors is expected to approve a motion Tuesday that would help foster children avoid having to switch schools when they move to a new home. The motion would create a pilot program to provide transportation for the students to the schools they were attending before A federal law passed in 2015 requires that school districts and child welfare agencies collaborate in order to give foster youths stability at school.“ Changing schools, along with changing homes, creates further upheaval for foster kids who have already experienced trauma and loss,” said Supervisor Kathryn Barger, who introduced the motion with Supervisor Mark Ridley- Thomas. During the fiscal year that ended June 30, about 8,000 school-age children in the Los Angeles County foster system experienced at least one move, said Deborah Silver, who oversees education at the Department of Children and Family Services. Such moves set children back academically by as much as four to six months, according to some estimates. That’s because it can take time to enroll in a new school, records are often lost, classes may not transfer over, and testing and developing lesson plans for children with special needs isn’t always immediately available, Silver said. The motion directs Children and Family Services, the L. A. County Office of Education and one or more school districts to sign an agreement to transport foster kids to and from school anywhere within L. A. County. Children and Family Services will contribute $300,000, the Office of Education $100,000 and Los Angeles Unified School District $100,000. The pilot program will test such strategies as giving out Metro TAP cards, reimbursing caregivers, altering bus routes within districts and contracting a private car service.
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-drilling-site-violations-20170501-story.html
Rancho Park Golf Course Glenn Koenig / Los Angeles Times The entrance to the Rancho Park Golf Course in Los Angeles. The entrance to the Rancho Park Golf Course in Los Angeles. ( Glenn Koenig / Los Angeles Times) An oil drilling site at a Westside golf course has flouted city rules by repeatedly installing new equipment without city approval, according to a recently released report. Community activists say that the reported violations are a symptom of a systemic problem for the city: its failure to adequately monitor drilling sites across Los Angeles. The Rancho Park drill site sits on nearly two acres owned by the parks department and has operated there for more than half a century. Earlier this year, Los Angeles City Councilman Paul Koretz called for an investigation into the drilling site after a resident complained that a gas burner had been installed there without city approval. City officials found that equipment had been repeatedly placed at the drilling site without city permission, including pipe supports, fire protection systems, electrical installations and five wastewater tanks that hold more than 5,000 gallons each, the report said. The oil company had received a permit from the South Coast Air Quality Management District to operate the gas burner, but it was installed without obtaining city building department permits to ensure it was stable, according to the report. The oil company also failed to seek approval from the planning department for the burner, a piece of equipment that has proved controversial elsewhere in the city. Last year, a city zoning official rejected plans by a different company to install an enclosed burner at a South Los Angeles drilling site, saying he was worried about possible emissions near homes. Installing the Rancho Park gas burner could violate city rules because it represents “a change and expansion” of operations at the site, Planning Director Vincent Bertoni wrote in the report. Other state and local agencies detected additional violations at the Rancho Park site, including overdue testing for an injection well, according to the city report. After an inspection, the Los Angeles Fire Department also required the company to test its fire alarm and sprinkler systems and to clean up wastewater at the site. In response, Hillcrest Beverly Oil Corp. issued a statement saying that the report had “inaccuracies and omissions” and had failed to include city permits and approved plans. The company, an affiliate of E& B Natural Resources in Bakersfield, declined repeated requests to provide further details about what was missing or wrong in the report. Its spokeswoman, Amy Roth, said Hillcrest Beverly Oil would send a formal letter to the city expressing its concerns. Roth said the site is regularly inspected by the Air Quality Management District and other agencies. The new burner “reduces air emissions and increases safety in the surrounding areas, which is why we have not received complaints from residents, businesses, park users or schools,” Roth said in a statement. The report has been referred to a City Council committee that is focused on planning issues. Bertoni has called on the company to turn in paperwork that would kick off a planning department review of the burner and other issues on the site. That process could ultimately lead to additional requirements for running the drilling site. Under the lease for the Rancho Park drilling site, the company is required to adhere to city and state laws. If it fails to comply with the agreement, the parks department can terminate the lease after sending out a written notice. The parks department is still reviewing the violations and has not sent out that notice, spokeswoman Rose Watson said Monday. Michael Salman, a West Adams resident who alerted Koretz and other city officials to the burner at the Rancho Park site, said that the city report underscores fundamental problems with how L. A. oversees oil operations. The planning department should be required to do annual inspections to check whether sites are in line with city codes and conditions, he said.“ The underlying problem is that oil operators don’t pay attention to the city code and city conditions,” Salman said, “because they know that for decades … the city has not been doing inspections.” Westside Neighborhood Council board member Colleen Mason Heller said that she was encouraged that the city was taking action but said the city needs to reexamine its enforcement at drilling sites across the city. Rancho Park “is just the poster child,” she said. Environmental activists with the Stand- L. A. coalition, in turn, said the problems uncovered at the Rancho Park site were part of a “persistent pattern of safety violations by oil companies” that could only be addressed by eliminating oil and gas drilling near homes, schools and other sensitive sites. The group urged the city to devote the same attention to other urban sites. Koretz, who faced criticism over the Rancho Park site as he campaigned for reelection this year, said Los Angeles should explore whether to charge a fee to increase oversight of drilling sites.“ I doubt that this site is particularly worse than any other site — it just happens to be one of the ones that came to our attention,” Koretz said. “ We have to find some way to clean up how we deal with oil and gas sites in the city.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-la-riots-unity-meeting-20170429-story.html
25 years after racial tensions erupted, black and Korean communities reflect on L. A. riots - LA Times Unity celebration Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times The Rev. Edgar Boyd, left, of First AME Church, joins hands with Hanmi Bank President and CEO C. G. Kum and KAFLA President Laura Jeon at a unity celebration at First AME Church's Allen House. The Rev. Edgar Boyd, left, of First AME Church, joins hands with Hanmi Bank President and CEO C. G. Kum and KAFLA President Laura Jeon at a unity celebration at First AME Church's Allen House. ( Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times) Jackie Broxton remembers the day the riots swept through her city, when the only way to get back to her car after church was to brave the flames and plumes of smoke that had engulfed the surrounding streets of South L. A. She needed to get her daughter home to Ladera Heights, and for a moment she thought she would have to walk from the First African Methodist Episcopal Church down rubble-ridden West Adams Boulevard. Luckily, a fellow parishioner offered to drive her around the corner. “ You came out of church with a sense of hope, but you got outside and it was chaos,” she said. Broxton, 69, was among about 100 others who gathered across the street from the church at the Allen House gardens Saturday afternoon to mark the 25th anniversary of the 1992 riots. City officials and members of the African American and Korean communities gathered at the home of the oldest black congregation in L. A. to promote a single message: unity. Korean buk drums are played as the Rev. J. Edgar Boyd, right, of First AME Church waits to enter wit Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times Korean buk drums are played as the Rev. J. Edgar Boyd, right, of First AME Church waits to enter with his wife, Florence Miles- Boyd, and L. A. City Council President Herb Wesson, left. Korean buk drums are played as the Rev. J. Edgar Boyd, right, of First AME Church waits to enter with his wife, Florence Miles- Boyd, and L. A. City Council President Herb Wesson, left. ( Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times) Leaders from both communities pledged to work together in what they described as a special day — the event marked the first time the two groups came together to commemorate the riots, said Laura Jeon, president of the Korean American Federation of Los Angeles.“ Twenty-five years ago, Koreatown was in chaos, its buildings charred and its community in ruins,” Jeon told the crowd. “ If the Korean community and the African American community had been communicating back in 1992, the pain, agony, anger felt by both communities might have been avoided.” The riots are considered the “greatest injury and tragedy to the Korean community” in the history of Korean immigration, she added. The event was among many in a week recalling the riots, which left 63 people dead, another 2,000 people injured and roughly $1 billion in property damage across the city. The L. A. riots was not a black- Korean issue. It was a poverty issue; it was an issue of language barriers. — Los Angeles City Councilman David Ryu Saturday at another event at a Koreatown church, Los Angeles City Councilman David Ryu enthusiastically dragged a man by his arm up to the stage. Ryu, the first Korean American to serve on the council, recounted how he and the man, Nathan Redfern, had worked together more than 20 years ago in the years following the riots. Ryu, then a fresh college graduate, and Redfern, a former Crips gang member, worked together at a Koreatown nonprofit’s dispute resolution center. Ryu recalled how the two men would go out to businesses in East and South L. A. to help resolve conflicts between Korean store owners and their customers, defusing the types of tense situations that led to the riots. Later, they worked on a citizenship project, Ryu teaching classes in English as a second language and Redfern giving mock citizenship exams at the Korean American Coalition, the councilman said.“ We used to go out together, arm in arm,” Ryu said at the event organized by the Korean Churches for Community Development. “ The L. A. riots was not a black- Korean issue. It was a poverty issue; it was an issue of language barriers.” The day’s program included a joint choir performance of Korean, black and Latino groups singing “ We Shall Overcome.” Congressional candidate Robert Lee Ahn, former L. A. Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and state Treasurer John Chiang — the latter two poised for the governor’s race — also made an appearance. Grace Oh, right, chats with minister Barbara Brooks. Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times Grace Oh, right, chats with minister Barbara Brooks. Grace Oh, right, chats with minister Barbara Brooks. ( Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times) On the afternoon of April 29, 1992, a jury in Ventura County acquitted four white Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney King, a black motorist, after a high-speed pursuit. The incident, caught on amateur videotape, had sparked national debate about police brutality and racial injustice. The verdict stunned L. A., where angry crowds gathered on street corners across the city. The flashpoint was a single intersection in South L. A. — Florence and Normandie avenues — but it was a scene eerily repeated in many parts of the city in the hours that followed. Mayor Tom Bradley called a local state of emergency later that day, and Gov. Pete Wilson, at Bradley’s request, ordered the National Guard to activate 2,000 reserve soldiers. The riots had multiple causes beyond the not-guilty verdicts — including grinding poverty and hopelessness in South L. A., and a police force with a reputation for treating minorities poorly. In some ways we are much better and stronger, more resilient. We’re not cocky anymore; we know what our faults are. — Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti City officials who spoke at the First AME Church event Saturday lauded the progress Los Angeles institutions have made since 1992, including a more diverse police force and a City Council that is more representative of the city it serves.“ In some ways we are much better and stronger, more resilient,” Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti told the audience. “ We’re not cocky anymore; we know what our faults are.”“ We still have a long way to go,” he added. Still, he said, Los Angeles’ progress in the last 25 years points to the city’s resilience.“ We survive,” Garcetti said. “ We always do get through the most difficult of days.” Some at the commemoration acknowledged that the relationship between African Americans and Korean Americans in South L. A. has gotten better but still needs work. Meanwhile, the Latino community keeps growing, forming the majority in most of the area’s neighborhoods. Although there’s black and Latino tension, diversity is a strength, they said. The Rev. Barbara Brooks, associate minister at First AME Church, said remembering the civil unrest together serves as a vehicle to better relations and fight “complacency.”“ It’s like when you have a goal of losing 50 pounds, and when you reach your goal you say, ‘ OK, I don’t have to do to do this anymore,’ ” Brooks said. “ But to maintain what you’ve lost, you’ve got to do something different.” For the African American and Korean communities, Brooks said, that “something different” is teamwork. Kieja Kim, president of the Victor Valley Korean American Assn., wasn’t in Los Angeles during the riots, but she came Saturday to show solidarity and support.“ Community relationships are important,” said Kim, 60. “ We aren’t different. Black, Korean, Asian — we’re human.” As the event came to a close following afternoon prayers, the crowd made their way inside, where they sat down for that other common symbol of unity: breaking bread.
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-essential-california-20170428-story.html
90 seconds: 4 stories you can't miss Loco L, the Roy Choi restaurant in Watts, has been named the L. A. Times restaurant of the year. House Republicans are shutting out doctors, experts and Democrats as they work on an Obamacare repeal. They’re brown, hairless and sometimes wear a mohawk. When it comes to April 1992, Rev. Cecil L. Murray can recall his message to the community. Credits: Cleon Arrey / Katie Falkenberg / Robert Gamriel / Robert Gauthier / Getty / Cheryl A. Guerrero / KTLA / Kate Linthicum / Kirk Mc Koy / Martin Mejia / Ray Whitehouse Loco L, the Roy Choi restaurant in Watts, has been named the L. A. Times restaurant of the year. House Republicans are shutting out doctors, experts and Democrats as they work on an Obamacare repeal. They’re brown, hairless and sometimes wear a mohawk. When it comes to April 1992, Rev. Cecil L. Murray can recall his message to the community. Credits: Cleon Arrey / Katie Falkenberg / Robert Gamriel / Robert Gauthier / Getty / Cheryl A. Guerrero / KTLA / Kate Linthicum / Kirk Mc Koy / Martin Mejia / Ray Whitehouse Good morning, and welcome to the Essential California newsletter. It’s Friday, April 28, and here’s what’s happening across California: TOP STORIES One prominent pastor reflects on the riots It was April 1992, and the Rev. Cecil L. Murray had led the city’s oldest and perhaps most politically active black church for almost 15 years. Back then, the First AME Church played an outsized role in south Los Angeles, serving as a political and religious forum and a place for dialogue about the issues facing the city, most notably the community’s rocky relations with the Police Department. So after having spent all this time trying to cool the city's anger, all Murray could do was watch helplessly as it burned in flames during the 1992 riots. Los Angeles Times Plus: The Times Editorial Board writes: “ People cared about the [ Rodney] King beating — they knew about the King beating — because they saw it. They saw the footage that was shot by George Holliday from his Lake View Terrace apartment balcony on March 3, 1991, and that was replayed on television countless times, just as today they see the controversial police shootings and beatings captured on surveillance cameras, private smartphones and officer body camera.” Los Angeles Times— More than 60 dead. More than 1,000 damaged properties. The riots by the numbers. Los Angeles Times— For L. A. Koreans, trying to find strength while remembering a dark chapter. NBC News — An unlikely icon of the L. A. riots. Daily News -- Image of then and now: April 1992 versus April 2017 in L. A. NBC Los Angeles With the 25th anniversary of the L. A. riots fast approaching, your Essential California team wants to hear your memories of those chaotic days. Email your memory to benjamin@latimes.com, and please keep it concise. GOP and Democrats team up on climate fight It’s not just Democrats in California who are taking up the mantle of fighting climate change. State Republicans are working with their Democratic colleagues and embracing the state’s complex system of regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. They’ve pledged to work across the aisle at the same time President Trump rolls back national policies on global warming. Los Angeles Times Coulter’s canceled speech doesn’t prevent protesters Berkeley officials warned students and residents to “keep a distance from violence” Thursday as police prepared for clashes between supporters and opponents of conservative commentator Ann Coulter. Aside from a couple of arrests and a lot of yelling, the confrontation didn’t prompt the fireworks or violence that some were expecting. Los Angeles Times L. A. STORIES Watch out: Strong winds hit Southern California Thursday night, toppling trees and damaging electric lines. Los Angeles Times Who takes the bus? Plenty of money has been allocated to pay for public transportation, but political barriers are still standing in the way. The Economist He’s in trouble: Los Angeles City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali lost the endorsements of the L. A. Times, City Councilman Mitch O’ Farrell and an Eastside Democratic group, one day after Bray- Ali apologized for comments he made in uncensored online forums. Los Angeles Times Senator in the spotlight: Sen. Dianne Feinstein is the chamber’s most senior member, and through tragedy and a long career, she has “styled herself as the ultimate pragmatist, a veteran deal-maker willing to collaborate with Republicans to get things done.” Mother Jones Plus: At town halls, voters take an uneven measure of Sens. Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein. Los Angeles Times IMMIGRATION AND THE BORDER Oops: A public database that the Trump administration said would help crime victims track the custody of suspected criminal immigrants mistakenly listed babies and other children. Los Angeles Times A curious revelation: Wells Fargo branches across the country deliberately targeted “undocumented immigrants” to open savings and checking accounts in order to meet aggressive sales goals, according to court documents. San Francisco Chronicle POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT Watch the coast: President Trump is expected to sign an executive order that could open large parts of the Pacific, Arctic and Atlantic oceans to new oil and gas drilling, a prospect that elicited a fierce backlash in California and elsewhere even before details of the order were clear. Los Angeles Times Single-payer progresses: California’s sweeping plan to establish a government-run universal healthcare system passed its first committee test when it made it through the Senate Health Committee Wednesday. Los Angeles Times Who gets hurt? In its tax proposal released Wednesday, the Trump administration is trying to eliminate the ability to deduct state and local taxes. This would would hurt Californians more than residents of almost any other state. Sacramento Bee Plus: Here is a look at some of the major changes that could affect you under Trump’s tax plan. Los Angeles Times Give the money back: Palm Springs City Hall has filed a lawsuit attempting to recover a six-acre property that was sold cheaply to a developer two years ago, claiming the deal should be undone because it was motivated by bribes allegedly paid to former Mayor Steve Pougnet. The Desert Sun CRIME AND COURTSUnion blasts mayor: The union that represents Los Angeles police officers launched a broadside against Mayor Eric Garcetti's budget on Thursday, warning the spending plan will divert funds away from neighborhood patrols and to the policing of Metro buses and trains. Los Angeles Times A depleted force: San Diego is struggling to recruit and retain police officers, and it’s only gotten worse in recent months. Despite recent compensation increases and stepped-up recruiting efforts, the number of officer vacancies has increased from 170 to 207 since October. San Diego Union- Tribune Fresno shooter update: The suspect in a shooting rampage in Fresno last week, Kori Muhammad, had his criminal proceedings delayed again, because his lawyer is calling his mental competency into question. Fresno Bee Woman dead in Walnut Creek: A woman was shot and killed Thursday afternoon on a normally quiet street near a popular museum in Walnut Creek, authorities said. San Francisco Chronicle CALIFORNIA CULTURETalk to the chefs: Hear from some of the city’s top culinary maestros about what it means to be a chef in Los Angeles in 2017. Los Angeles Times And the winner is: Locol, which aims to bring healthy food at affordable prices to areas like Watts and Oakland, was named the L. A. Times’ restaurant of the year. Los Angeles Times Sell meals out of your house: The state Assembly’s health committee voted this week to move forward AB 626, a California bill that would make it legal for home cooks to sell meals made out of their homes for profit. The Mercury News Dim sum for fun! “ Cantonese cuisine gets short shrift these days. It's not often included in discussions of exciting Chinese food in Los Angeles County, and I believe that's because we're all so used to it.” So begins this list of a few of the better dim sum places in Los Angeles. LA Weekly Seen and heard: “ Fargo,” the TV series that grew out of the 1996 Coen brothers movie, has been shooting scenes in Los Angeles for next week’s third episode. Los Angeles Times CALIFORNIA ALMANACSan Diego, San Francisco and Los Angeles area: partly cloudy Friday, sunny Saturday. Sacramento: cloudy Friday, sunny Saturday. More weather is here. AND FINALLYToday’s California memory comes from Virginia Davis: “ I was working at Cal State Dominguez Hills at the time the riots started, and the university sent word we were to evacuate. I got to my car, shared a few words of encouragement to friends and received the same, and started the drive home to Long Beach. I witnessed pickup trucks with grown men and young boys carrying sticks and bats. Perhaps they were just trying to get to safety just like me. This time, because I was afraid, I was afraid of them. Yet I didn’t drive directly home but to the top of Signal Hill. I could see there were fires, and I wanted to get high enough up to know where they were. Was my neighborhood ablaze? Did I need to go somewhere else? “ Upon reaching the top and looking around, I honestly thought I was seeing a scene from a war zone. I couldn’t accept what I was seeing. Every direction I turned to had fires blazing, massive towers of black smoke, with sirens screaming. I could hardly breathe for the shock of it all, and the air was acrid. This was my home, and we were at war with each other. The sound of gunfire greeted me as I reached my apartment and, as I did reach my place, I knew others were not as lucky. I did not sit in front of my living room window at night for fear of offering a target. A student was pulled off of his motorcycle that night and beaten to death just because he was there, a block from my apartment. There was an outline in tape on the pavement where he was murdered.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-lapd-budget-overtime-20170427-story.html
Garcetti budget would reduce police patrols in neighborhoods and increase response times, LAPD union warns - LA Times Garcetti budget would reduce police patrols in neighborhoods and increase response times, LAPD union warns LAPD Chief Charlie Beck with a new hybrid police car earlier this month. Al Seib / Los Angeles Times Mayor Eric Garcetti's budget will divert funds away from neighborhood police patrols, the Los Angeles Police Protective League says. Above, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck with a new hybrid police car earlier this month. Mayor Eric Garcetti's budget will divert funds away from neighborhood police patrols, the Los Angeles Police Protective League says. Above, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck with a new hybrid police car earlier this month. ( Al Seib / Los Angeles Times) The union that represents Los Angeles police officers launched a broadside against Mayor Eric Garcetti’s budget on Thursday, warning that the spending plan will divert funds away from neighborhood patrols and to the policing of Metro buses and trains. Garcetti’s budget proposal for 2017-18 calls for $121 million for sworn-officer overtime, up from the $90 million planned in the current year. But about a third of the money would go to patrol the county’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which signed a contract with the Los Angeles Police Department earlier this year. In a letter to the City Council, the Los Angeles Police Protective League said the reduction in overtime hours for non- Metro duties would leave the LAPD with fewer officers to respond to neighborhood-level crime. Union leaders contend the shift would also increase police response times and leave some non-emergency calls unanswered altogether.“ This budget is a sneaky and disingenuous affront to every resident that wants safer neighborhoods, swifter response times and more community policing,” said union board member Robert Harris, appearing Thursday before the council’s Budget and Finance Committee, which is reviewing Garcetti’s spending plan. For months, the police union has been pressuring city leaders to take action with what league officials believe is one of the most pressing issues facing the city: how officers are deployed. The league contends there aren’t enough officers patrolling city streets, forcing cops to rush from call to call, causing response times to creep higher and limiting the quality of interactions they can have with residents. Now, union leaders are threatening to sue over Garcetti’s spending plan, saying it violates the terms of the league’s contract, which guarantees a minimum $100 million of sworn overtime in the coming fiscal year. That overtime was supposed to go to city patrols, not Metro duties, league officials said. City Administrative Officer Rich Llewellyn, the city’s top budget advisor, said the spending plan complies with the union contract. Meanwhile, Garcetti spokesman George Kivork defended the plan, saying it will increase overall LAPD overtime spending and put more officers on the street. “ That’s why Mayor Garcetti led the push to secure LAPD’s security services contract with Metro, which will put 150 additional officers on the bus and rail lines in our communities across the city every day,” he said in a statement. Despite those reassurances, Police Chief Charlie Beck acknowledged that Garcetti’s budget would pare back non- Metro officer overtime by $10 million in the coming year — a reduction of 11%, or 164,000 hours.“ We had hoped there would be an increased allotment of overtime,” Beck said, ”but we also realize the fiscal realities of the city.” Beck said the reduction in non- Metro overtime pay would likely force the city to expand its practice of “banking” overtime pay — assigning officers to work overtime, but delaying payment for those hours potentially years into the future, and at a more expensive rate. That practice, described by some officials as putting LAPD overtime on “the city’s credit card,” could occur in May 2018 if funding is not increased, Beck said.“ That’s something the council has to think about — whether you’re willing to incur that debt,” he said. The LAPD relied heavily on banking hours during the recession, racking up tens of millions of dollars in unpaid employee costs. Although the department has paid off some of those obligations, Beck said, resuming the practice could push the overtime bank past $100 million next year. Councilman Mitch Englander voiced dismay at that idea that the city would again delay payment to its officers into the future. Garcetti deputy chief of staff Matt Szabo argued that the overtime budget was one of several difficult decisions made by the mayor as officials worked to close a budget gap of $263 million.“ We understand that it’s not the most ideal situation,” Szabo told Englander. “ But the entire budget presented a less than ideal situation. So we had to make choices.” Metro’s board voted in February to award the LAPD a five-year, $369-million contract for policing services. Garcetti had pushed for that change, which shifts law enforcement duties for more than half the bus and rail system from the county sheriff to the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. L. A.’s police union gave its support to the LAPD’s Metro contract. But on Thursday, league officials said they would not have done so had they known that overtime hours would be cut for non-transit duties in Los Angeles.“ You have to remember, when everybody went to advocate for the MTA contract, the deal was, this will not impact ... our regular day-to-day policing,” said league spokesman Dustin De Rollo. “ And that’s what’s going to happen.” Beck described the Metro contract as “really important” to overall public safety. Officers will respond more quickly to transit-related crimes, he said, instead of relying on another agency.“ It puts Los Angeles police officers where they belong — on the streets of Los Angeles,” he said.
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-bray-ali-reaction-20170427-story.html
Joe Bray- Ali at a candidates forum in Los Angeles last week Genaro Molina / Los Angeles Times L. A. City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali appears at a candidates forum last week. L. A. City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali appears at a candidates forum last week. ( Genaro Molina / Los Angeles Times) Los Angeles City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali lost the endorsements Thursday of The Times, City Councilman Mitch O’ Farrell and an Eastside Democratic group, one day after Bray- Ali apologized for comments he made in uncensored online forums that include racist content. The Times editorial board had previously endorsed Bray- Ali as a knowledgeable outsider who appeared poised to shake up the status quo. But, the board wrote Thursday, “ The revelations [about Bray- Ali] are so deeply disturbing — raising serious questions about both his judgment and his character — that The Times has re-evaluated its original position.” In doing so, the newspaper did not endorse Councilman Gil Cedillo, the incumbent and Bray- Ali’s opponent in the May 16 runoff. “ The hard truth for voters in this district is that they are left without a great choice,” The Times’ editorial said. O’ Farrell, who had taken the rare step of endorsing a fellow council member’s opponent, decried Bray- Ali’s online activity. “ I am deeply disappointed by his highly insensitive comments in online forums that breed hate and dehumanize already marginalized communities,” O’ Farrell said in a statement. “ People that I love and care about are hurt by these comments. There is no place for this type of speech anywhere, especially in the City of Angels.” And the East Area Progressive Democrats, which says it has 750 members and voted in January to endorse Bray- Ali, called his remarks “caustic and callous” Thursday.“ They undercut the candidate’s claim of readiness to represent all the people of our diverse Eastside neighborhoods,” the group said in a statement. Bray- Ali, a 38-year-old bike advocate, is seeking to topple Cedillo in Council District 1, which includes Chinatown, Westlake and several northeast neighborhoods. Reached by phone Thursday afternoon, Bray- Ali said that he could understand why some had pulled their endorsements but that he would stay in the race. “ Those endorsements were a great boost for my campaign, but they do not represent what a campaign needs to win,” he said. Bray- Ali said he believed his campaign message — focused on affordable housing and clean, safe streets — still resonates with voters. He said he spent Thursday walking around Council District 1 neighborhoods. “ On the ground, out in the streets, on the phone — it’s been all about the campaign that I’ve built,” he said. Bray- Ali confirmed Wednesday that he had posted multiple comments about a year and a half ago on the website Voat, including on a channel whose title consists of a racial slur against black people and on another that mocks overweight people. He had also said gender reassignment surgery “doesn’t seem like something worthy of praise, but instead of being criticized as a shameful excess.” Councilman Mike Bonin, of District 11, also condemned Bray- Ali’s comments. “ At a time when voices of intolerance are given a bullhorn in the nation’s capital, it is essential that we speak up against such voices in our own neighborhoods,” Bonin said in a statement. Aaron Sosnick, a New York-based financier, has given $225,000 to an outside committee to support Bray- Ali. A large portion of that money has already been spent or committed, Sosnick said in a phone interview, but he was “assessing” his support for the candidate. City Controller Ron Galperin and community advocates denounced Bray- Ali at a news conference Thursday on Olvera Street.“ The shameful conduct that he is engaged in certainly suggests that he is not fit for this office,” Galperin said. The controller affirmed his support for Cedillo, whom Galperin described as a “champion of diverse communities.” Galperin stopped short of calling for Bray- Ali to pull out of the race, but Richard Zaldivar, head of the Wall Las Memorias Project, a community health organization, demanded exactly that.“ If he’s really sorry for these comments and he’s learned from these mistakes, then he should suspend his campaign and withdraw from the election,” Zaldivar said. “ Furthermore, he should become a volunteer and get to know people in the district … and learn about people that he dislikes.” Zaldivar compared Bray- Ali’s rhetoric to that of the president, saying residents of District 1 “don’t need a replicate” of Donald Trump. Marco Antonio Pacheco, president of Casa de la Cultura Maya, a nonprofit cultural group, said he was initially neutral on the District 1 election, but after news came out about disparaging remarks Bray- Ali made about Mexicans nine years ago in a You Tube video and the comments on Voat, he had to take a stand.“ We realized what kind of character he has,” he said. “ We have to choose what’s going to be best for our community — the whole community.” While Pacheco and others endorsed Cedillo for a second term, The Times editorial board said Cedillo’s “spotty performance, his coziness with developers and the deep discontent among his constituents” prompted it to look for “a credible alternative. But Joe Bray- Ali is not that person.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-bray-ali-website-20170426-story.html
Joe Bray- Ali Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times Los Angeles City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali, seen at a forum earlier this year, is challenging incumbent Gil Cedillo in Council District 1. Los Angeles City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali, seen at a forum earlier this year, is challenging incumbent Gil Cedillo in Council District 1. ( Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times) Los Angeles City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali, who is seeking to unseat incumbent Councilman Gil Cedillo in next month’s election, apologized Wednesday for comments he made on Voat, a website that features uncensored content from users, some of it racist. Bray- Ali, 38, confirmed that he posted multiple comments in a Voat channel whose title consists of a racial slur and that he criticized the practice of gender-reassignment surgery in another section of the website. The comments were made about a year and half ago and were first reported by the website LAist. Bray- Ali told The Times in an interview that he visited Voat because he wanted to “track” the behavior of racists and that his comments don’t reflect his values. He also called Voat a “reprehensible” site and said he regrets making the comments.“ Many of the things that I wrote, I didn’t even believe them when I wrote them,” Bray- Ali said. “ I was trying to have an argument with racists online. I found a place where they go and I tried to spark an argument with them.” Bray- Ali, a bike advocate, is running against Cedillo in the May 16 election to represent District 1, which includes Chinatown, Westlake and several northeast neighborhoods. A former blogger, Bray- Ali frequently comments on Los Angeles websites under the name ubrayj02. On Voat, he commented on a video that shows two black women violently attacking one another at a gas station. Bray- Ali wrote that a woman with an artificial hair extension has an advantage in a fight with a woman whose hair is real, because the “weave” can come off easily if pulled, according to a screen image of Bray- Ali’s comment posted by LAist.com. He also replied to a post in a channel called “ Fat People Hate,” which mocks overweight people. “ If they keep her on her diet, that won’t be a long lifetime,” he wrote, referring to a story that had been posted about a woman who was sentenced to life in prison for her role in a child rape. Responding to a post that criticized comments by Golden Globes host Ricky Gervais as “transphobic,” Bray- Ali commented that gender reassignment surgery “doesn’t seem like something worthy of praise, but instead of being criticized as a shameful excess.” On Wednesday, Bray- Ali said that he’d met transgender individuals during his City Council campaign and that his views had changed in the last year and a half.“ I didn’t know what I was talking about; I was ignorant at the time,” Bray- Ali said. Cedillo denounced Bray- Ali’s comments Wednesday, saying his opponent “is not fit for public office, and particularly unsuited to represent a district as diverse as Los Angeles’ 1st.” Najee Ali, political director of civil rights group National Action Network, hasn’t endorsed a candidate in the race and doesn’t live in the district, but he said he would organize protests outside Bray- Ali’s campaign headquarters until the candidate withdraws from the race.“ I was stunned that anyone would want to participate in that forum,” Ali said of Voat. Voat has been criticized for hosting an alt-right channel. The web server company Host Europe refused in 2015 to work with the site because it was “publicizing incitement of people, as well as abusive, insulting and youth-endangering content,” according to the tech news site Venture Beat. Councilman Mitch O’ Farrell endorsed Bray- Ali earlier this month. A spokesman for O’ Farrell said the councilman stands by his endorsement, noting that Bray- Ali has apologized for the online comments. City Council President Herb Wesson criticized Bray- Ali’s comments about women’s hair.“ There is nothing funny about this,” said Wesson, who has endorsed Cedillo. “ Why would you even want to go on a website like that?” Bray- Ali’s apology over the Voat comments come a week after he apologized for comments made in a video posted on You Tube. In the video, he posed a question to the OC Weekly’s “ Ask a Mexican” columnist: “ Dear Mexican: I’d like to know why all my neighbors think that the doorbell is a car horn.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-essential-california-20170426-story.html
90 seconds: 4 stories you can't miss Trump's first 100 days in office are almost up. What do you do with a spacecraft that's about to run out of fuel?  Could another event like the L. A. riots happen again? Four new witnesses testified Tuesday at Robert Durst’s murder case. Trump's first 100 days in office are almost up. What do you do with a spacecraft that's about to run out of fuel?  Could another event like the L. A. riots happen again? Four new witnesses testified Tuesday at Robert Durst’s murder case. Good morning, and welcome to the Essential California newsletter. It’s Wednesday, April 26, and here’s what’s happening across California: TOP STORIES The riots this time Nearly 6 out of 10 Angelenos think another riot is likely in the next five years, increasing for the first time after two decades of steady decline, according to a Loyola Marymount University poll of Los Angeles residents that has been taken every five years after the 1992 disturbances. That’s higher than any other year except for 1997, the first year the survey was conducted, and more than a 10-point jump compared with the 2012 survey. Los Angeles Times Names to remember When the riots began 25 years ago, two names were on everyone’s mind: Rodney King and Latasha Harlins. King survived his beating at the hands of police; Harlins, 15 at the time, was shot by a South Korean-born shopkeeper who received a light prison sentence for his actions. Los Angeles Times Plus— Former Los Angeles Times columnist Sandy Banks — L. A. Times columnist Steve Lopez writes that in today’s South L. A., struggling residents now face a pressure point they didn’t feel in 1992: gentrification. Los Angeles Times— The riots as reflected in film. Los Angeles Times— The youngest riot victim: a baby born with a bullet wound. Fox LAWith the 25th anniversary of the L. A. riots fast approaching, your Essential California team wants to hear your memories of those chaotic days. Email your memory to benjamin@latimes.com, and please keep it concise. Audit criticizes UC system A blistering and contested state audit released Tuesday found that the University of California system’s administration pays top workers salaries significantly higher than that of similar state employees, has provided millions of dollars in benefits not typical to the public sector and failed to disclose to the Board of Regents and the public that it had $175 million in budget reserve funds. Los Angeles Times Sanctuary Cities 1, Trump 0 A federal judge placed a nationwide hold Tuesday on President Trump’s order to strip funds from municipal governments that refuse to cooperate fully with immigration agents. The San Francisco-based judge, William H. Orrick III, said Trump’s order unconstitutionally infringed on the rights of local governments. This ruling comes after San Francisco and Santa Clara County filed lawsuits challenging the order. The suits argued the directive violated the 10th Amendment, which protects states from federal government interference. Los Angeles Times L. A. STORIESCity of Stars: Los Angeles celebrated “ La La Land” Day with aerial dancers, a jazz band and Mayor Eric Garcetti playing a song from the movie on the piano. Los Angeles Times Cashing in: The Banc of California’s former CEO was paid more than $10 million last year, which is four times the amount he was paid in 2015. Orange County Register Raucous town hall: A town hall meeting sponsored by U. S. Rep. Ted Lieu devolved into chaos when a bunch of Donald Trump supporters disrupted the predominantly Democratic crowd calling for the president’s impeachment. L. A. Daily News IMMIGRATION AND THE BORDERBreaking a treaty? Antonio Rascón, chief Mexican engineer on the International Boundary and Water Commission, said in an interview with NPR that some border wall proposals he has seen would violate a 47-year-old treaty governing the shared waters of the Rio Grande. NPRNot so fast: Trump has backed off the fight for the funding of the proposed border wall for now. The White House says they’ll regroup in the fall. Los Angeles Times POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT New revelation: Documents reportedly show the lease Derick Almena and a partner signed for the Ghost Ship warehouse planned an illegal use from the start — an artist collective that was not allowed under zoning laws — and that the building owner had approved the use. The Mercury News Some students must be happy: Because of a labor dispute at a Northern California elementary school, students don’t have any homework. Fox40 A scientist runs: A former chemistry professor at Cal State Fullerton will challenge longtime Rep. Ed Royce ( R- Fullerton). Phil Janowicz now runs an education consulting firm and is a first-time candidate. Los Angeles Times Another scientist runs: Volcano scientist Jess Phoenix is running for Congress in the 25th Congressional District. She decided to run after Trump was elected and says that the current representative, Republican Steve Knight, has mishandled environmental problems and disregarded the science needed to address them. Washington Post CRIME AND COURTSTale of two bails: A California woman whose friends raised $35 million for her bail is under house arrest, while a man who can’t afford $75,000 bail must decide whether to plead guilty or stay behind bars. The Guardian A fatal chase: A driver was shot and killed by Long Beach police after a high-speed pursuit came to an end Tuesday morning in Bellflower, authorities said. Los Angeles Times Blood sport: Behind barn doors in Fresno County were nearly 100 roosters, all them taken from an alleged cockfighting ring in Kerman. ABC 30 THE ENVIRONMENTCheck out these cacti! We’ve seen plenty of weeds pop up after the rains, but the cacti of California are also shining brighter than ever. New York Times CALIFORNIA CULTURENew mural fun: An “ Ed Ruscha Monument” mural will arrive in May. The massive mural will go up on the side of the American Hotel at 303 S. Hewitt St. in the Arts District. L. A. Downtown News For sale! You can live in the home in which Marilyn Monroe was found dead in 1962. It’s going to cost you $6.9 million to move into the Brentwood home, which is described as an "authentic 1929 Hacienda." Los Angeles Times A different wine country: Baja California isn’t too far of a drive, and its wine country is something to behold. The vineyards and culinary marvels beckon in the austere backcountry of the Valle de Guadalupe in Mexico. New York Times Without the NEA: Piece by Piece is a nonprofit organization that provides low-income and previously homeless people with free mosaic art workshops that help them build skills, self-confidence and, eventually, income. If the budget of the National Endowment for the Arts is slashed, the program will probably go kaput. Los Angeles Times CALIFORNIA ALMANACLos Angeles area: sunny Wednesday, partly cloudy Thursday. San Diego: partly cloudy Wednesday and Thursday. San Francisco area: showers Wednesday, cloudy Thursday. Sacramento: cloudy Wednesday, partly cloudy Thursday. More weather is here. AND FINALLYToday’s California Memory comes from Dean Paul:“ It was Wednesday, April 29, 1992 — a seemingly normal workday. I was working at Hughes Aircraft in El Segundo. We started to hear that due to the Rodney King verdicts, civil unrest was breaking out. From the rooftop of our 12-story building, we could see smoke from fires to the east. After some time, it was announced that we should all go home early to be with our families. I headed west on Grand Avenue to take Vista del Mar north toward my home in West L. A. It took over two hours to drive one mile, then traffic improved somewhat. It was even scarier watching the events on TV at home!”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-essential-california-20170425-story.html
90 seconds: 4 stories you can't miss Writers Guild of America members voted overwhelmingly to approve a strike. Thousands took to L. A.'s streets to mark 102 years since the Armenian genocide. Efforts to help refugees resettle have seen success in Missoula, Montana. The NRA is challenging California's new gun control laws. Credits: Associated Press / Mark Boster / Getty / Christina House / KTLA / Al Seib Writers Guild of America members voted overwhelmingly to approve a strike. Thousands took to L. A.'s streets to mark 102 years since the Armenian genocide. Efforts to help refugees resettle have seen success in Missoula, Montana. The NRA is challenging California's new gun control laws. Credits: Associated Press / Mark Boster / Getty / Christina House / KTLA / Al Seib Good morning, and welcome to the Essential California newsletter. It’s Tuesday, April 25, and here’s what’s happening across California: TOP STORIES What Garcetti didn’t mention Last week at his State of the City speech, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti neglected to mention the more than $1.1 billion needed to pay for city employees’ pensions and healthcare after they retire. The cost of retiree benefits amounts to nearly 20% of the city’s general fund, which pays for basic city services. In 2002, the figure was less than 5%. “ Every municipal government is feeling this pain,” said Joe Nation, a former Democratic state legislator who teaches at Stanford University's Institute for Economic Policy Research. Los Angeles Times The statue that started a debate A proposed statue with a Chinese face has sparked resistance and acrimonious debate in Monterey Park. A nonprofit proposed temporarily placing the statue near a fountain that was the centerpiece of a housing development with an ugly history: Midwick View Estates was meant for whites only. Los Angeles Times The NRA targets gun control laws The state affiliate of the National Rifle Assn. on Monday filed the first in a series of planned court challenges opposing sweeping new gun control laws approved in California after the San Bernardino terrorist attacks. Los Angeles Times More charging stations for Teslas Tesla will nearly double the size of its Supercharger electric car-charging network this year to 10,000 public charging units globally, up from 5,400, the company said Monday. California will get 1,000 of the new charging units. Los Angeles Times Plus: Here are seven reasons why investors are betting big that Tesla can’t accelerate from producing 80,000 vehicles a year to 500,000 in 2018. Los Angeles Times L. A. STORIESBannon’s Hollywood adventure: President Trump’s senior advisor Stephen K. Bannon cut his teeth and made millions in Hollywood. Here’s what he actually did during his time on the West Coast. The New Yorker A Mormon goes viral: Meet Greg Trimble, a Riverside Mormon who started a blog about the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Mormons like his blog because he tackles tough topics and fearlessly shares his opinions. The Desert News Questionable posters: Sabo, a right-wing street artist in Los Angeles, is raising eyebrows with advertisements posted around town that depict Caitlyn Jenner as the scary clown from Stephen King's " It." Los Angeles Times IMMIGRATION AND THE BORDERIn the shadows: About 1 in 8 students in California schools has at least one parent who is in the country illegally, according to a new brief from the Education Trust- West. Ed Source About that wall: It’s an open secret on Capitol Hill: Trump may want a “big, beautiful” border wall, but few in Congress are willing to pay for it. The dispute may determine if the government is forced to shut down Friday. Los Angeles Times About that wall, Part 2: Former Los Angeles Times reporter Sonia Nazario won a Pulitzer Prize covering immigration. She argues that building a wall won't secure the border. Los Angeles Times POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT Time for reform: Tax reform is not just a pressing issue at the federal level. Times columnist George Skelton says it's time for California to stop leaning on the rich and take up state tax reform. Los Angeles Times Meet the candidates: Republican businessman John Cox made his fortune in potato chips, and now the San Diego County resident is using his own money in his campaign for governor of California. KQEDA different type of vending machine: UC Davis is one of the first college campuses in the country to have a vending machine that offers the Plan B emergency contraceptive, otherwise known as the "morning after pill." Fox 40 CRIME AND COURTS Bound for court: A UC Berkeley student group on Monday filed a lawsuit demanding that the university allow conservative pundit Ann Coulter to speak on campus Thursday as originally planned. Los Angeles Times Trouble in prison: California Department of Corrections officers may face punitive damages after a mentally ill inmate was dragged from a cell and pepper-sprayed. Sacramento Bee Arsonist sentenced: Dawud Abdulwali was sentenced to 15 years in prison for starting a massive fire at the Da Vinci apartment complex in downtown L. A. Prosecutors said he set the fire in anger over fatal police shootings of African Americans in Ferguson, Mo., and other cities. Los Angeles Times No sign of missing boy: The father of a 5-year-old boy who vanished from a South Pasadena park has been arrested in connection with the disappearance. The boy was last seen about 8 a.m. April 15, when his mother handed him off to his father in Baldwin Park. Los Angeles Times THE ENVIRONMENTCalifornia versus Trump: California is moving forward with more stringent emissions rules, setting up an expected showdown with the Trump administration. NBC News Cat struggles: “ Researchers analyzed thousands of saber-toothed cat bones from the La Brea Tar Pits — sludgy oil seeps found in the middle of Los Angeles — and found that the cats frequently injured their spines, likely through violent episodes of twisting and straining.” Popular Science CALIFORNIA CULTUREThe Comeback Kid: Joe Montana is getting a street named for him in San Francisco, but while standing onstage inside City Hall and holding a street sign that read “ Joe Montana Drive,” he respectfully asked that the name be changed to “ Montana- Clark Drive,” to honor his ailing friend and onetime teammate Dwight Clark. Los Angeles Times Remembering a legend: Selena Quintanilla- Pérez, the Mexican American singer, was murdered more than 20 years ago, but her fans still gather to celebrate her life, including at Plaza de la Raza in Lincoln Park, near her old home in Los Angeles. New York Times Make a reservation: The San Francisco Chronicle last week released its list of 25 rising star chefs. For the first time ever, the list includes no white men. San Francisco Chronicle What a building: Described as “the best constructed public building in the country” when it opened, the U. S. Court of Appeals building in San Francisco’s South of Market “reads like a love letter to granite and marble.” Curbed San Francisco CALIFORNIA ALMANACLos Angeles area: partly cloudy Tuesday, sunny Wednesday. Sacramento and San Diego: partly cloudy Tuesday and Wednesday. San Francisco area: partly cloudy Tuesday, cloudy Wednesday: More weather is here. AND FINALLYToday’s California memory comes from Glenn Scott: “ In 1982, I went to the San Diego airport to wait for my wife returning from a work trip. I entered the bar to wait. Upon entering, I noticed Paul Williams, the singer, songwriter and actor, sitting at the bar with a friend. I approached him, told him how much I enjoyed his work and offered to buy him a drink. Instead, he bought me a drink and we had a good time discussing his work.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-pensions-20170421-story.html
Mayor Eric Garcetti delivers state of the city speech Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times Mayor Eric Garcetti gives his State of the City speech Thursday at the Los Angeles City Hall council chambers. Mayor Eric Garcetti gives his State of the City speech Thursday at the Los Angeles City Hall council chambers. ( Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times) When Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti unveiled his proposed budget last week, he called a $176-million effort to battle homelessness his top priority, highlighted a $35-million plan to mend broken streets and promised $2 million to clean up graffiti. He did not mention the expenditure that dwarfs all of those combined: more than $1.1 billion to pay for city employees’ pensions and healthcare after they retire. The cost of retiree benefits amounts to nearly 20% of the city’s general fund, which pays for basic city services. In 2002, the figure was less than 5%. Garcetti proposes boosting spending to reduce L. A. traffic deaths, but advocates are pushing for more David Zahniser and Laura J. Nelson Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti secured one of his biggest accomplishments last year with passage of Measure M, the sales tax hike slated to deliver $120 billion for transportation projects over four decades. That victory was achieved, in part, through the hard work of nonprofit groups and grass-roots... Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti secured one of his biggest accomplishments last year with passage of Measure M, the sales tax hike slated to deliver $120 billion for transportation projects over four decades. That victory was achieved, in part, through the hard work of nonprofit groups and grass-roots... ( David Zahniser and Laura J. Nelson) “ Every municipal government is feeling this pain,” said Joe Nation, a former Democratic state legislator who teaches at Stanford's Institute for Economic Policy Research. “ But 20% is a pretty big number to be spending on pensions,” he added. Garcetti, like most civic leaders in California, inherited crippling pension promises made by his predecessors, and there’s little he can do to lower that cost in the near future. Without major reform in Sacramento, or a groundbreaking win in the courts, the annual billion-dollar pension bill is something Angelenos have to live with, like bad traffic and the threat of earthquakes. And it keeps climbing — up nearly $18 million since last year. Pension costs for government employees are high across the country, but they’re particularly burdensome in California, where in the early 2000s political leaders guaranteed public sector workers early and generous retirements and promised that stock market gains — not taxpayers — would pay for it all. The plan was for governments to invest relatively small sums in what were then booming financial markets and the money would grow fast enough to cover big pension payments by the time the employees retired. The investment gains didn’t materialize — they were wiped out by the bursting of the dot-com bubble and the collapse of the housing market. Now taxpayers, most of whom have little set aside for their own retirements, are on the hook for their public servants’ guaranteed pensions. In most of California, including Los Angeles, civilian employees were promised they could retire at 55 with more than half of their salary guaranteed for life. Police and firefighters were promised they could retire at 50 with up to 90% of their highest salary guaranteed. Garcetti spokesman Alex Comisar noted that, in his first term, Garcetti negotiated a three-year freeze on raises for city employees. Because the size of a pension check is based on the employee’s final salary, that helped slow the growth of pensions costs. But the freeze ends this year, and the upcoming raises will drive the pension bill still higher. Other reforms enacted by the city in 2011 and 2012, which included lowering pensions for new employees and requiring workers to contribute more of their salaries toward their retirements, have at best slowed the growth of the city’s pension costs. Real savings won’t show up until those new employees start to retire.“ That strategy works if your objective is to solve this problem in 30 years,” Nation said. Major change that could have an immediate impact, like such as reducing pensions for most current employees or switching them to far less expensive 401(k) plans, is legally fraught. A body of court decisions known as the “ California rule” prohibits employers in the state from making any reduction to the retirement promises offered on an employee’s first day of work. Appeals courts have recently ruled in favor of two California government agencies that challenged the rule. Marin County tried to stop late-career “pension spiking” by refusing to count toward pensions extra pay workers receive for various on-call duties and for declining health insurance. The unions sued and lost. On appeal, the three-judge panel unanimously agreed that pension benefits can be reduced." While a public employee does have a 'vested right' to a pension, that right is only to a 'reasonable' pension — not an immutable entitlement to the most optimal formula of calculating the pension," Justice James A. Richman, of California’s 1st District Court of Appeal, wrote last August. The case is now before the state Supreme Court. A ruling in Marin County’s favor would give governments across the state much more room to negotiate with employee unions. In the meantime, Garcetti used his State of the City speech on Thursday to highlight the millions he’s planning to spend to clean up neighborhoods while ignoring the billion-dollar elephant in the room.“ It’s such an important issue,” said Jack Humphreville, a blogger and member of the Greater Wilshire Neighborhood Council, who attended the speech. “ I don’t know why he doesn’t talk about it.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-garcetti-budget-20170421-story.html
Garcetti proposes boosting spending to reduce L. A. traffic deaths, but advocates are pushing for more - LA Times Garcetti proposes boosting spending to reduce L. A. traffic deaths, but advocates are pushing for more Scene of fatal crash in Koreatown Al Seib / Los Angeles Times A crash scene in Koreatown in 2014 where a pedestrian was killed. Last year, 260 people were killed in L. A. traffic collisions, an increase of almost 43% over the prior year. A crash scene in Koreatown in 2014 where a pedestrian was killed. Last year, 260 people were killed in L. A. traffic collisions, an increase of almost 43% over the prior year. ( Al Seib / Los Angeles Times) Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti secured one of his biggest accomplishments last year with passage of Measure M, the sales tax hike slated to deliver $120 billion for transportation projects over four decades. That victory was achieved, in part, through the hard work of nonprofit groups and grass-roots activists who pushed for more investment in rail, buses and ways of making walking and bicycling safer. Now, some of those same advocates are voicing dismay over Garcetti’s budget plan, saying it does too little to prevent traffic deaths. Garcetti called this week for $16.6 million to go to the city’s Vision Zero initiative, which seeks to end traffic fatalities on city streets by 2025. Mayoral aides say that’s a dramatic increase from this year’s allocation of $3 million. But Jessica Meaney, who heads the transportation advocacy group Investing in Place, said the program will need twice as much money to begin seriously reducing the number of deaths on city streets. “ The promise of Measure M was to be able to get around the city with more options. But we need to make sure we can get around the city alive,” said Meaney, who intends to press the council to put more money into Vision Zero. City officials have been facing competing demands on how to divvy up what’s expected to be an influx of state and local transportation money. Safe-streets advocates are pushing hard for Vision Zero, noting that 260 people were killed in traffic collisions in 2016, an increase of almost 43% over the prior year. Others have been pushing for the city to start repairing the its most deteriorated streets, which have been ignored since the 2008 recession. Those roads — with a ranking of D and F from engineers — are by far the most expensive to fix, costing up to $500,000 for every mile of a street lane, city officials say. Garcetti is seeking to spend $34 million on such streets in the coming fiscal year, reconstructing more than 60 lane-miles, said Matt Szabo, the mayor’s deputy chief of staff. That strategy would simultaneously address the need for repairs and street safety, he said. The boulevards that receive repairs will be along the city’s “high injury network” of dangerous streets, where 65% of pedestrian deaths occur. As those D and F streets are rebuilt, they will be upgraded with safety features planned under Vision Zero, such as enhanced crosswalks at intersections, Szabo said.“ The message [ Garcetti’s] intending to send with this proposal is that fixing our streets and making them safe are not exclusive of one another,” Szabo said. “ So we’re increasing dramatically the budget for fixing our worst roads, and we’re increasing fivefold the budget for Vision Zero.” Councilman Mike Bonin, a Garcetti ally who raised money for the Measure M campaign, disagrees with the mayor’s approach on transportation spending. Filling potholes and reconstructing roads is not the strategy that will seriously reduce traffic deaths, said Bonin, who heads the council’s Transportation Committee. Bonin said he intends to rework the mayor’s plan to send a greater share of transportation funds to Vision Zero.“ Our first year of Vision Zero was really, really underfunded, and the problem [of traffic deaths] actually got worse this year,” he said. “ So we really need to make a significant investment in this.” Vision Zero spells out an array of safety improvements, including painting more visible crosswalks and retiming traffic signals to give pedestrians more time to cross the street. More significant overhauls could include new medians and left-turn lanes or the removal of traffic lanes.“ To really reduce traffic fatalities, those physical improvements to change the street design are essential, and expensive,” said Deborah Murphy, executive director of the pedestrian advocacy group Los Angeles Walks. Murphy said she will press lawmakers to shift funds from the budget for D and F streets to Vision Zero. That issue has already divided some council members. Bonin’s committee voted 3 to 2 last month to recommend that three-fifths of Measure M’s local funding go toward Vision Zero initiatives. Councilmen David Ryu and Paul Koretz dissented, saying a greater share of the funds should go to fixing D and F streets. Some have pointed out that Measure M was specifically billed — both in mailers and on social media — as a way to fill potholes. Ryu, who favors Garcetti’s transportation plan, said city leaders need to fulfill the commitment made during the Measure M campaign.“ It was very clear that constituents in my district overwhelmingly were asking for repairs of our streets,” said Ryu, who represents neighborhoods from Silver Lake to Sherman Oaks. “ I think it’s very important that we rebuild trust, and the way you do that is by fulfilling those promises.” Even if Garcetti’s budget is approved unchanged, the city will still have about 6,400 lane-miles of D and F streets, said Szabo, the mayoral aide. The challenge for Vision Zero is similarly steep. The head of the city’s Department of Transportation said last month it could take as much as $80 million to achieve a 20% reduction in fatal and severe crashes involving pedestrians and cyclists. Tamika Butler, executive director of the Los Angeles County Bicycle Coalition, said the city could find other ways of securing more money for Vision Zero. One option, she said, would be to tap police and fire department funding.“ When you’re looking at the important work these departments do, it’s all about saving lives,” Butler said. “ Vision Zero is about saving lives, too.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-essential-california-20170421-story.html
90 seconds: 4 stories you can't miss President Trump's plan to ramp up deportations is easier said than done. Half of Aleppo's population has fled, but in the Al Shaar neighborhood, relative stability has descended on the district.  This summer, women are shattering the glass ceiling -- or the big screen, at least.  The 22nd L. A. Times Festival of Books is this weekend. Credits:  Christina House / Francine Orr / Liliana Nieto del Rio / Mariah Tauger / KTLA President Trump's plan to ramp up deportations is easier said than done. Half of Aleppo's population has fled, but in the Al Shaar neighborhood, relative stability has descended on the district.  This summer, women are shattering the glass ceiling -- or the big screen, at least.  The 22nd L. A. Times Festival of Books is this weekend. Credits:  Christina House / Francine Orr / Liliana Nieto del Rio / Mariah Tauger / KTLA Good morning, and welcome to the Essential California newsletter. It’s Friday, April 21, and here’s what’s happening across California: TOP STORIES Good jobs are disappearing The stories of Eddie Ybarra and Francisco Martinez, two construction workers in their 40s, show the hollowing out of blue-collar jobs in Los Angeles and America writ large. Ybarra is a union worker and makes $40 an hour with pension, healthcare and unlimited vacation, while Martinez works for a nonunion contractor, makes $12.50 less with no insurance and gets just five vacation days a year. As immigrants like Martinez flooded California’s job market, pay sank. But which came first? Los Angeles Times Charting a course of ‘bold action’ for L. A. In a State of the City speech that focused heavily on homelessness and creating new revenue streams, Mayor Eric Garcetti struck a hopeful tone. The speech — his fourth as mayor — presented Los Angeles as a compassionate counterpoint to what’s coming out of Washington and focused on pledges and programs to protect immigrants. The 45-minute address was delivered on the same day the mayor unveiled the budget. Los Angeles Times Education as a way out In California’s prisons, inmates are teaching each other how to start over as they hope and plan for a life on the outside. California corrections officials unveiled new regulations last month that will expand the credits some inmates earn for demonstrating good behavior and completing educational programs. The highly anticipated — and fiercely debated — guidelines could help trim the sentences of nearly 2,000 inmates over the next fiscal year. Los Angeles Times L. A. STORIES Be aware: Lead poisoning is prevalent in hundreds of areas across Los Angeles County, from affluent hubs to low-income or gentrifying areas. The results shocked some local leaders and showed how lead hazards persist even in a health-conscious region. Reuters March for Science: On Saturday, Los Angeles’ streets will fill for the March for Science, which was organized by a stay-at-home mom in Temple City who launched a Facebook group that spawned the march. Los Angeles Times Who rides those bikes? The L. A. Metro bike-sharing program has drawn about 130,000 riders since July, but “numbers released thus far show that the L. A. County transit agency has a way to go before reaching its mid-summer goal to have two rides every day for each of its 800 bikes.” KPCC A school closes: Whittier College trustees have made the surprise decision to close the college’s law school, angering students at the Costa Mesa campus. Los Angeles Times IMMIGRATION AND THE BORDER The cutters: Migrant workers in Mendocino County are making thousands of dollars trimming marijuana. “ Many trimmers in the county looking for work this season have come from all over the U. S. and all over the rest of the world, including Spain, France, Portugal and Switzerland.” ABC News This is different: In two weeks, Kern County Sheriff Donny Youngblood will ask the Kern County Board of Supervisors to adopt a resolution that will declare Kern County a “law and order” county and not a “sanctuary” county. Los Angeles Times A familiar face: The San Diego federal judge whom Trump criticized as a “hater” is now hearing a key deportation case. There’s a political irony here. Los Angeles Times POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT Coulter is coming: UC Berkeley officials on Thursday reversed their decision to cancel conservative commentator Ann Coulter’s appearance at the university. It’s been rescheduled from next week to May 2, according to a statement from the university. Los Angeles Times Hunter changes course: Rep. Duncan Hunter says he has halted campaign payments to his wife. The congressman is under federal criminal investigation amid allegations of using campaign money for personal purposes. San Diego Union- Tribune Oops! L. A. City Council candidate Joe Bray- Ali apologized for comments he made about Mexicans in a video on You Tube. Los Angeles Times Changing tune: Since he almost lost in November, Rep. Darrell Issa has shifted toward the center on several issues, including calling for Atty. Gen. Jeff Session to recuse himself from the Russian investigation and being hesitant about Trump’s attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Los Angeles Times Train fare: The California treasurer sold $1.2 billion in high-speed rail bonds Thursday, which would be tapped for Central Valley construction. Los Angeles Times CRIME AND COURTS Arrest made: A 50-year-old Tennessee man accused of kidnapping his 15-year-old former student was arrested in Northern California — and the teenage girl was recovered safely after she was missing for more than a month. Los Angeles Times A gun snafu: Federal officials have admitted that procedures were violated at Los Angeles International Airport when an off-duty police officer boarded a flight to Taiwan with a handgun in her carry-on bag. Los Angeles Daily News Big sting: Prosecutors charged 26 doctors and other medical professionals Thursday in an alleged $40-million kickback scheme that may have defrauded up to 13,000 patients in California. Los Angeles Times THE ENVIRONMENT Yard makeover: The drought is over, but some homeowners say they will be keeping their water-sipping landscapes. This home in Woodland Hills shows that you don’t need turf to look good. Los Angeles Times The salad squeeze: Too much rain in the state has squeezed U. S. salad supplies, and it may be a several more weeks before supermarket shelves are fully stocked again. That means the salad shortage could last until May. Bloomberg A clean car problem: Zero-emissions vehicles aren’t selling, according to car consultant Eric Noble. In his mind, it would be better if the state incentivized purchases of low-emissions vehicles rather than zero-emissions vehicles. Capital and Main CALIFORNIA CULTUREOut at night: To beat the crowds, surfers in San Diego are heading out after sunset and braving the waves with LED boards. Sharks, not visibility, are their biggest concern. New York Times Twenty-five years on: There are two new documentaries about the L. A. riots that are coming out, as the 25th anniversary of the violence approaches. Here are Los Angeles Times’ film critic Kenneth Turan’s thoughts on both. Los Angeles Times Go west! What’s been billed as the best Mexican restaurant in New York City, Cosme, is coming to L. A. The spot will probably open in 2018. Eater LATakei alert: The musical “ Allegiance,” inspired by the early life of actor George Takei in World War II internment camps, will come to L. A. in 2018, co-producers East West Players and the Japanese American Cultural & Community Center announced Thursday. Los Angeles Times CALIFORNIA ALMANACLos Angeles area: sunny Friday, partly cloudy Saturday. Sacramento, San Diego and San Francisco area: sunny Friday and Saturday. More weather is here. AND FINALLYToday’s California memory comes from Vic Pentz:“ When I grew up in inland Riverside during the 1960s, a constant tug was the lure to escape our orange groves for the sensual delights of Newport Beach. Some afternoons, the rumor ‘surf’s up!’ seemed to almost empty out our high school in a caravan of cars down the 91. Invariably my father seemed to know. ‘ You ditched school for Newport!’ he’d fume. How did he know? One day we looked out the window and spotted Dad leaning in behind the steering wheel, jotting down the odometer mileage. In auto shop class my brother soon learned how to disconnect and reconnect the odometer cable. It was simple now. Just wash all the sand off really well before heading home.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-metro-rider-committee-20170420-story.html
Metro commuters Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times Commuters wait for their buses to pull away from the North Hollywood Metro station. Commuters wait for their buses to pull away from the North Hollywood Metro station. ( Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times) The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has seven committees of elected officials that debate issues as high-profile as rail construction budgets, and as obscure as the amount of water needed to wash 2,248 buses. What doesn’t exist is a panel that focuses on what it’s like to take transit in Los Angeles County. That will change this summer, with a new directive from Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who is also a Metro director. During his State of the City address Thursday, Garcetti announced the committee, saying taking Metro “shouldn’t be a burden — it should be a convenience.”“ Positively or negatively, every single thing Metro does affects the passenger experience,” said Los Angeles City Councilman and Metro director Mike Bonin, who will run the group. “ But it’s not often the primary prism through which a decision is made.” Garcetti will begin his second term as Metro chair in July. The committee will start meeting after that. Here’s what they may discuss: Spending an influx of cash Later this year, Metro will start receiving revenue from Measure M, a sales tax increase for transportation that county voters approved last year. The tax is expected to generate $860 million in 2018, and more than $120 billion over its first four decades. More than half of that revenue is already earmarked for highway projects and new bus and rail lines that will dramatically expand the size of the region’s transit network. An additional 27% of the revenue — or $232 million, in 2018 — will go toward transit service, which could influence the number of buses and trains, and how often they run. An additional 2% will be spent on improvements for pedestrians and cyclists. The committee could weigh in to make sure sure that county voters’ multibillion-dollar investment is as user-friendly as possible, Bonin said. Improving Metro for current riders More than three-quarters of Metro riders do not have access to a car. A key goal of the committee will be making transit service cleaner, safer and more reliable for those transit-dependent passengers. Service complaints are one reason Metro ridership has fallen in recent years. In a Metro survey of more than 2,000 former passengers, more than six in 10 respondents said they stopped taking transit because it was slow, infrequent, unreliable or difficult to access. Twenty-nine percent stopped riding because they felt unsafe or uncomfortable. The committee will also focus on making transit feel more comfortable, including nudging cities to add more bus shelters (or upgrade the ones they already have) and to improve sidewalks and bike lanes near stations, Bonin said. Attracting new customers When it comes to commuting, driving still dominates Los Angeles County. More than four in five residents get to work in the car, while 7% take a bus or train, according to census data. Metro chief executive Phil Washington has said he wants to triple the rate of transit riders. That ambitious goal will require attracting and retaining new customers at a much faster rate than the population grows. Bonin said the committee will explore ways to boost ridership, noting that “there’s still a lot that we don’t know about why people with the option of using transit don’t choose transit.” Reaching riders in new ways“ I want it to be very much about feedback, and input,” Bonin said. “ I don’t want that to mean people have to come down to MTA headquarters. I want to get creative about how we hear from people.” One idea, he said, would be to hold some meetings at rush hour at a transit station. That strategy could address one common criticism of Metro’s public process: Monthly meetings start at 9 a.m., and are always downtown, meaning many working people can’t attend. What do you think? If you’re a Metro rider, what improvements do you want to see during your commute? If you don’t take transit, why not? What would make you change your mind? Explain in the comments section, or reach out to transportation reporter Laura Nelson on Twitter or via email.
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-garcetti-state-of-the-city-20170419-story.html
Garcetti's State of the City charts a course of 'bold action' for L. A. as his budget stakes out top priorities - LA Times Garcetti's State of the City charts a course of 'bold action' for L. A. as his budget stakes out top priorities Eric Garcetti Rich Polk / Getty Images for Environmental Media Assn. L. A. Mayor Eric Garcetti speaks during an event hosted by the Environmental Media Assn. in Beverly Hills on March 23. L. A. Mayor Eric Garcetti speaks during an event hosted by the Environmental Media Assn. in Beverly Hills on March 23. ( Rich Polk / Getty Images for Environmental Media Assn.) Mayor Eric Garcetti used his State of the City address Thursday to present Los Angeles as a compassionate counterpoint to the policies of President Trump, charting a sharply different path on climate change, immigration and efforts to help those in need. While the nation is “anxious and divided,” Los Angeles has the opportunity “to be a model of moral leadership and bold action,” Garcetti told the crowd of politicians, labor leaders and business representatives inside the Los Angeles City Council chambers. Fresh off a historic reelection victory, Garcetti, 46, acknowledged that the city remains “an imperfect paradise” but said L. A. is making major strides on jobs, tourism, transportation and housing. He also released his proposed budget for the 2017-18 fiscal year, staking out homelessness as his top priority while closing an estimated $263-million shortfall. The $9.2-billion spending plan also lays out additional money to repair the city’s most damaged streets, adds 75 firefighters and dramatically expands funding for the city’s Vision Zero program, which seeks to end traffic fatalities. Garcetti used his speech to contrast the “progressive” activities in Los Angeles with a “backward, retrenching Washington,” said Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Bonin. “ Trump is writing a public narrative of America, and I think Los Angeles and California are the counter-narratives to that.” Despite the optimistic messages, Garcetti argued city leaders need to hold the line on spending. To balance the budget this year, the mayor relied on $103 million in spending reductions, much of it achieved by leaving city employee positions vacant. The remainder of the shortfall was eliminated by relying on anticipated revenue, including funding from digital billboards, Airbnb-type rentals and trash franchise agreements. Garcetti was able to increase spending in key areas, in large part because voters approved tax increases to pay for transportation initiatives and efforts to fight homelessness. The mayor proposed $176 million to aid the homeless, a significant increase bolstered by the passage of Proposition HHH in November. Still, one union representative argued that the budget focuses too little on public safety.“ This budget is a recipe for longer police response times, increasing crime in our neighborhoods and fewer police officers,” said Dustin De Rollo, spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Protective League, which represents rank-and-file officers. Garcetti said Angelenos do not need to worry about the city’s fiscal health and called the budget a “conservative” document.“ We not only protected, but expanded, core services and core priorities, from paving streets to homelessness,” Garcetti said. The mayor called on the City Council to pass a fee on development that would be used to pay for affordable housing. City Controller Ron Galperin said he had “serious questions” about the proposed fee, which is opposed by business groups.“ I’m not convinced that the way that you create more housing is by making it more expensive to build…. Los Angeles already is one of the most expensive cities in the country to build anything,” Galperin said. Garcetti won a second term last month with 81% of the vote. He has not stated publicly whether he has plans to run for higher office. The mayor did not mention President Trump by name during the State of the City address. But he vowed that if “the White House pulls out of the Paris climate agreement, we’re going to adopt it right here in L. A.” He also touched on the issue of immigration, switching to Spanish as he told people not to be afraid to report a crime. He praised Talia Inlender, a staff attorney at the nonprofit law firm Public Counsel, for her volunteer work aiding travelers at Los Angeles International Airport in the wake of Trump’s travel ban. Garcetti also reiterated that “the LAPD will never act as a federal immigration force.” His oft-repeated stance was criticized by Robin Hvidston, executive director of We the People Rising, a Claremont-based group opposed to illegal immigration.“ This sends a message to the world that people can enter and live in Los Angeles illegally,” Hvidston said. “ Not only that, but the mayor is going to protect them.” Before the speech, the crowd at City Hall watched a video showing glowing sunrises and other iconic Los Angeles scenes, then listened to an invocation by an imam, Jihad Saafir, who called on God to fill their hearts with empathy, love and humility. Acknowledging the struggles still confronting the city, Garcetti cited the recent shooting of a 3-year-old girl and reiterated his commitment to get 20,000 guns off the street in the next five years — a goal he unveiled earlier this year. The program comes amid growing concern over gun violence. All told, 319 people have been injured or killed in shootings so far this year. Violent crime has risen for three straight years after 12 consecutive years of decline, according to city data. On Thursday, however, Garcetti said he was encouraged by recent statistics showing a dip in crime so far this year compared with the same period in 2016. As he closed out his annual address, Garcetti dismissed the idea that Los Angeles is “some isolated world on the coast,” adding that “our families struggle with the same things people grapple with throughout the country.” Raphael Sonenshein, executive director of the Pat Brown Institute at Cal State L. A., said that message captures the duality of the city’s Hollywood glamour and blue-collar workers — and could be especially important for Garcetti’s political future beyond Los Angeles. The speech “made a case for the city,” Sonenshein concluded, “as well as for his leadership.”
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-ask-mexican-brayali-20170419-story.html
Joe Bray- Ali Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times Joe Bray- Ali is challenging Councilman Gil Cedillo in next month’s District 1 runoff election. Joe Bray- Ali is challenging Councilman Gil Cedillo in next month’s District 1 runoff election. ( Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times) A Los Angeles City Council candidate seeking to represent a heavily Latino district apologized for comments he made about Mexicans in a You Tube video posted online nearly a decade ago but said the video was intended for the popular “ Ask a Mexican” column in the OC Weekly. Joe Bray- Ali, who is challenging City Councilman Gil Cedillo for the Council District 1 seat, appeared in a video titled “ Ask a Mexican — Mexican Doorbell” that is posted to his You Tube page. In the video, Bray- Ali holds his young daughter and speaks directly to the camera.“ Dear Mexican, I’d like to know why all my neighbors think that the doorbell is a car horn. They wake up my baby,” Bray- Ali says. Below the 13-second video is text reading, “ Why do some of my neighbors think that their car's horn is a doorbell? The asians, whites, and other groups I live near don't honk to tell their friends they have arrived. What is up with the mexicans?” Michael Atkins, campaign spokesman for Bray- Ali, said Thursday that the video was intended to be a question for Gustavo Arellano's “ Ask a Mexican” column in the OC Weekly. Atkins’ comments came after he sent out a statement in which Bray- Ali apologized for the video. That initial statement didn’t explain that Bray- Ali was pitching the question to Arellano. The campaign spokesman said he hadn’t gotten a full explanation from Bray- Ali about the video. The “ Ask a Mexican” column is a humorous take on Mexican Americans’ behavior, with Arellano responding to readers’ questions. Asked why Bray- Ali issued an apology for the video if it was supposed to be directed toward Arellano, Atkins said the apology is intended for anyone offended by Bray- Ali's comments. Atkins added that Cedillo was conducting a "smear campaign" by sending the video to reporters. Bray- Ali’s ancestry is Indian, Hungarian and Irish. He’s married to a Mexican Chinese woman.“ Joe apologizes,” Atkins said of the video. “ He says the comment was stupid and it’s amazing how social media can remind of the mistakes of youth. This was nine years ago.” Comedian George Lopez has made a similar joke about car horns and doorbells, Atkins said. A link to the video was sent to reporters Wednesday by Cedillo’s team after Bray- Ali called on the council member to denounce a racist comment made during a heated campaign debate Monday night in Westlake. An audience member shouted out, “ Go back to India,” to Bray- Ali, sparking outrage among his supporters. Cedillo said in a statement Wednesday that he didn’t hear what was said but that he denounces the India comment." I know from personal experience how hateful remarks can hurt. That is why I would like Mr. Bray- Ali to explain remarks he made on a You Tube video on March 9, 2008,” Cedillo said. Bray- Ali, a bike activist, and Cedillo were the top two vote-getters in the March 7 primary election to represent Council District 1, which takes in several northeast neighborhoods and includes Westlake and Chinatown. The runoff is May 16.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-travel-ban-appeals-courts-2017-htmlstory.html
President Trump Mark Humphrey / AP President Trump speaks at a rally in Nashville, Tenn. on March 15 after his travel ban was blocked by a federal judge in Hawaii. President Trump speaks at a rally in Nashville, Tenn. on March 15 after his travel ban was blocked by a federal judge in Hawaii. ( Mark Humphrey / AP) More than three months after President Trump initially signed his travel ban, federal government lawyers will head to appeals courts on opposite ends of the country this month in hopes of getting it reinstated. On Monday, Justice Department attorneys will argue for the ban in the U. S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals. They want the Richmond, Va., court to reverse a Maryland federal judge’s order that blocked Trump’s 90-day suspension of travel to the U. S. by nationals of Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen. A week later on May 15, government lawyers will present arguments in Seattle in the U. S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. The issue at hand is a Hawaii federal judge’s decision blocking the travel ban. The Hawaii case stopped the country-specific ban and froze Trump’s 120-day pause on refugee admissions. Whoever loses will probably appeal to the U. S. Supreme Court. Here’s what you need to know before that happens. Rachel Weaver protests against the travel ban outside the office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Chicago on March 16, 2017. ( Scott Olson / Getty Images) What’s behind the lawsuits The state of Hawaii and Ismail Elshikh, the imam of the Muslim Assn. of Hawaii, won a national block of Trump’s order on March 15, the day before it was supposed to take effect. Hawaii said the ban would hurt tourism and the state’s university, which recruits from the six countries and has faculty members who hail from them. Elshikh, a U. S. citizen, said in the suit that his mother-in-law had applied for a visa to travel to Hawaii to see the family before Trump became president. Elshikh said he fears that, under the travel ban, his mother-in-law couldn’t see him. His lawsuit said the ban stigmatized Muslims and created a perception that their religion was “disfavored.” The Maryland case was brought by immigrants from Syria, Somalia and Iran whose families are in the middle of the visa approval process. It was also filed on behalf of groups that work with refugees. In that case, lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Immigration Law Center said the ban would prevent family reunification and discriminate on the basis of religion. U. S. District Judge Derrick Watson in Honolulu. ( George F. Lee / Associated Press) Lower court judges have been scathing In Hawaii, U. S. District Judge Derrick Watson, an appointee of President Obama, said Trump appeared to violate the Establishment Clause of the Constitution by discriminating against Muslims. As proof, Watson’s cited Trump’s campaign promise to suspend Muslim immigration and his defense of his travel order as president. He pointed to an interview Trump gave to the Christian Broadcast Network in January after the first travel ban saying he would give preference to Christian refugees. That version of the travel order was later stuck down in courts and revised before it was struck down again.“ The illogic of the government’s contention is palpable,” Watson wrote in his opinion, rebutting government arguments that the travel ban didn’t target Muslims. “ The notion that one can demonstrate animus toward any group of people only by targeting all of them at once is fundamentally flawed.” The opinion came out on March 15, the day before the revised travel ban was set to go into effect. Reacting to Watson while at a Nashville campaign rally, Trump said he preferred the original travel ban. He said the modified one was simply a “watered-down” version of the the first. In his 43-page ruling, which landed March 16, U. S. District Judge Theodore D. Chuang of Maryland said there were “strong indications that the national security purpose is not the primary purpose for the travel ban.” He said it was likely that Trump's ban violated the Constitution by discriminating against Muslims. The judges also quoted Trump advisor Rudy Giuliani and White House senior policy advisor Stephen Miller. Miller said in an interview that the second travel ban would “fundamentally” have the same outcome as the first one. In an earlier interview, Giuliani said the travel order was a legal way of keeping Trump’s promise of a ban on Muslim travel to the U. S. But Trump’s defense has stayed the same The federal government says that Trump has wide authority over matters of national security and that his order was intended to prevent potential terrorists from getting to the U. S. The order cited two instances where people from the targeted countries were tied to terrorism in the U. S. In January 2013, two Iraqis who came to the U. S. as refugees in 2009 were sentenced to more than 40 years in prison for supporting terrorism and attempting to send weapons and cash to Al Qaeda in Iraq. The new order, however, excluded Iraq from the ban. The revised order also mentioned the case of a native of Somalia who was brought to the U. S. as a refugee and later became a citizen. He was sentenced in 2014 to 30 years in prison for plotting a truck bomb attack at a 2010 Christmas tree-lighting ceremony in Portland, Ore.“ It would be far less disruptive to uniformity — and more respectful of the Constitution’s allocation of authority over immigration to the political branches — to leave the order’s nationwide policy in place, with individualized exceptions for any particular persons who plaintiffs demonstrate suffer cognizable and irreparable injury,” government lawyers wrote in a brief to the 4th Circuit in April. Government lawyers have also argued that Trump’s statements and those of his associates on suspending Muslim immigration shouldn’t be used to judge the travel ban. Unlike the first ban, Trump’s revised order does not refer to a person’s status as a “religious minority” or mention any religion by name. Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg in April 2016. ( Eric Risberg / Associated Press) Meanwhile, third parties have piled on Hundreds of groups and individuals have filed dozens of briefs in support of or against the travel ban in both appeals courts. They include states and cities, tech companies, former national security officials, universities and civil rights groups. In addition, at least 165 members of Congress have urged courts to keep blocking the ban. More groups have filed briefs against Trump’s order than for it. Here’s a sampling of the filings. Against the ban Maryland, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Oregon, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, District of Columbia Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, San Francisco and Seattle Microsoft, Facebook, Google, Uber, Twitter, Lyft, Yahoo and Airbnb Madeleine Albright, Leon E. Panetta and James R. Clapper For the ban Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Oklahoma, South Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia Gun Owners Foundation, U. S. Border Control Foundation, English First Foundation, Citizens United Foundation, Conservative Legal Defense and Education Fund, Southeastern Legal Foundation, Alliance Defending Freedom and the American Center for Law and Justice Justin Cox of the National Immigration Law Center, center, with Omar Jadwat of American Civil Liberties Union, outside the federal courthouse in Greenbelt, Md. after a hearing over the travel ban on March 15. ( Manuel Balce Ceneta / Associated Press) It’s now up to the lawyers to make their cases Career attorneys from the Department of Justice will face off against civil rights attorneys fighting the travel ban. Many government attorneys are working on both appeals. The full list of attorneys for the cases is longer than what’s below. Only some of the lawyers listed here will appear in court. For the ban Jeffrey B. Wall, acting solicitor general Chad A. Readler, acting solicitor general Rod J. Rosenstein, U. S. attorney August E. Flentje, special counsel to the assistant attorney general Elliot Enoki, acting U. S. attorney Against the ban 9th Circuit: Douglas Chin, Hawaii attorney general; Neal Katyal, a former acting solicitor general under President Obama 4th Circuit: Justin Cox, National Immigration Law Center; Omar Jadwat, American Civil Liberties Union Protesters who support the travel ban stand across the street from the # No Ban No Wall protesters at Los Angeles International Airport on Feb. 4, 2017. ( Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times) But the decision rests with the appeals court judges and, most likely, the Supreme Court afterward In an unusual move, nearly all appeals court judges — instead of the usual three-judge panel — will hear the case in the 4th Circuit on Monday. The full court comprises 15 judges, the majority of whom were appointed by Democrats. But some judges won't participate because they are semi-retired or have a conflict of interest. For example, the most prominent Republican appointee to the court, Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III, will probably recuse himself because his son-in-law, acting U. S. Solicitor Gen. Jeffrey B. Wall, is representing Trump. A three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit will hear arguments on May 15. The court will announce the names of the judges a week before the hearing. Judges appointed by Democratic presidents outnumber Republican appointees on the 9th Circuit by about 2 to 1. But panels are drawn randomly. As such, it’s possible — but unlikely — for the travel ban case to be heard a completely Republican-appointed slate of judges. Last month, the court rejected Hawaii’s request for it to skip a three-judge panel and convene an 11-judge “en banc” panel to consider arguments over the travel ban. It did not give details about its reasoning. ALSOHas the 9th Circuit gone 'bananas'? And can Trump break it up? How a Montana county became a stage for the national debate over refugees With new court filings, Trump's travel ban appears more likely to reach Supreme Court
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-government-shutdown-timeline-20170504-htmlstory.html
President Donald Trump speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington, Tuesday, May 2, 2 Evan Vucci / Associated Press President Trump speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House. He recently said the "country needs a good shutdown" of the federal government. President Trump speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House. He recently said the "country needs a good shutdown" of the federal government. ( Evan Vucci / Associated Press) It’s a political gambit that President Trump seems to think will pay off: Let the federal government grind to a halt.“ Our country needs a good ‘shutdown’ in September to fix mess,” he tweeted last week. The unconventional proclamation from the unconventional president raised concern from both sides of the aisle. His comments came as lawmakers agreed to a $1-trillion bipartisan budget bill that funds the federal government through September, which means another battle and potential government shutdown looms this fall. Under a shutdown, thousands of federal employees would go without pay and national parks would close, among other things. In short: It will upset a lot of people. Here’s a look at the key players and fallout from recent government shutdowns. October 2013 How it happened It’s simple — the battle over healthcare closed the government. That year, House Republicans, angered by President Obama’s Affordable Care Act, repeatedly offered resolutions during budget negotiations that would have defunded the healthcare law. These resolutions were rejected by the Democratic-controlled Senate, which led to a budget impasse. The government shut down for more than two weeks after Congress was unable to agree on a budget for the new fiscal year, leaving nearly 800,000 federal employees out of work without pay. On the political front, the ramifications went both ways. Members of the bipartisan budget conference Sen. Jeff Sessions ( R- Ala.), Rep. Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.), Sen. Patty Murray ( D- Wash.) and Rep. Chris Van Hollen ( D- Md.) speak to the media the day after Congress voted to ending a 16-day government shutdown. ( Win Mc Namee / Getty Images) Winners Sen. Harry Reid ( D- Nev.) ( Alex Wong / Getty Images) The then- Senate majority leader was a vocal Democratic critic of Republican-led efforts to defund President Obama’s healthcare bill. He relentlessly castigated Republicans for their tactics to defund Obamacare, which ultimately led to the shutdown.“ You know with a bully you cannot let them slap you around, because they slap you around today, they slap you five or six times tomorrow. We are not going to be bullied,” Reid told reporters. In the end, Reid came out of the shutdown with a bolstered reputation as a fighter of Democratic causes and earned plaudits from Obama. Obamacare ( Gary Friedman/ Los Angeles Times) At the time, the botched rollout of the healthcare law drew daily headlines. Web sites for healthcare exchanges didn’t work and the administration had few answers. Still, the healthcare law was able to remain intact and public scorn focused on Republicans as the government remained shuttered for 16 days and federal employees nationwide stayed home. Republicans thought their efforts would prove fruitful. Sen. John Mc Cain ( R- Ariz.) ( T. J. Kirkpatrick / Getty Images) In the months and weeks leading to the shutdown, Mc Cain served as a voice of reason for the Republicans. He insisted that it would be unwise for the party to allow a shutdown over Obamacare.“ I campaigned in 2012 all over this country for months: ‘ Repeal and replace Obamacare.’ That was not the mandate of the voters. If they wanted to repeal Obamacare, the 2012 election would have been probably significantly different,” he said at the time. Ultimately, his efforts faltered as Republicans charged ahead with efforts to defund Obamacare and the government shutdown. Losers House Speaker John A. Boehner ( R- Ohio) ( Alex Wong / Getty Images) He failed to rein in the most conservative grassroots wing of his party. Boehner was the middle man of sorts in negotiations between Democrats, moderate Republicans and conservative activists. Two years later, he resigned because of the strong opposition he faced from the Republican caucus. Sen. Ted Cruz ( R- Texas) ( Andrew Burton / Getty Images) While Cruz raised his national profile as a staunch critic of Obamacare, he also made a lot of enemies. Weeks before the shutdown he delivered a 21-hour talkathon on the Senate floor, assailing the health care law — a move that drew scorn from Democrats and Republicans alike. Cruz’s vocal opposition to the law helped establish him as a force within the GOP grassroots and set him up for a presidential run in 2016. Debbie Wasserman Schultz ( D- Fla.) ( Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press) Public opinion polls consistently showed that Republicans were blamed for the government shutdown. Even so, the former Democratic National Committee chairwoman was unable to turn that into victory in the 2014 midterm. Many Democrats fault her leadership as a factor in the party’s sweeping losses in the midterm election. November/ December 1995 and January 1996 How it happened This battle over funding Medicare, public education and environmental initiatives pitted President Clinton against Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich. It turned into the longest government shutdown in the country’s history. The shutdown came in two phases, with government services being shuttered from Nov. 14-19, 1995; then from Dec. 16 until Jan. 6, 1996. In total, the government closed for 27 days. President Clinton and bipartisan leaders meet at the White House on Dec. 30, 1995, for talks on the federal budget. ( Greg Gibson / Associated Press) Winner President Clinton ( Marcy Nighswander / Associated Press) He stood firm in his battle with the Republican-controlled Congress. Clinton wanted a budget that increased expenditures on, among other things, Medicare and public education, but Republicans wanted to slow government spending. This led to months of negotiations — the government closing, opening, then closing again — and through it all, Clinton’s public approval ratings dipped only slightly. He easily won reelection in November 1996. Loser House Speaker Newt Gingrich ( R- Ga.) ( J. Scott Applewhite / Associated Press) After sweeping gains in the 1994 midterm election, Republicans were emboldened and ready for a showdown." He can run the parts of the government that are left, or he can run no government," Gingrich told reporters weeks before the first shutdown. " Which of the two of us do you think worries more about the government not showing up?" News reports at the time also noted that Gingrich was open to a shutdown after Clinton made him exit the rear of Air Force One after the two attended the funeral of slain Israeli leader Yitzhak Rabin. The comments made the Republican leader appear petty. In the end, after weeks of a shutdown, Republicans ultimately conceded to Clinton and Democrats. May 2017 What’s happening now Last week Congress passed a $1-trillion budget that funds the federal government through September. However, the budget bill does not allocate funds for Trump’s much-promised border wall. It’s the first bipartisan piece of legislation of the Trump presidency and funding for his signature proposal is nowhere to be found. The bill, however, does have funding for border security and increases to defense spending — both of which were touted as wins by the Trump administration. Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell ( R- Ky.), flanked by Sen. Cory Gardner ( R- Colo.), Sen. John Barrasso ( R- Wyo.) and Sen. John Thune ( R- S. D.), speaks to the media about the recent spending bill that averted a government shutdown. ( Aaron P. Bernstein / Getty Images) Key players President Trump It’s clear Trump does not like to lose and does not like bad headlines. By all accounts, Trump and his policies did not come out on top in the budget deal. Trump blamed the Senate rules, which require 60 votes to pass most legislation, for the exclusion of key priorities from the spending bill. This has in turn led some conservatives to push for Trump to support a government shutdown if Congress does not heed his policies this fall. Trump has always trusted his gut instinct in politics — so far it’s seemed to benefit him — and his comments will be closely watched this fall. ( J. Scott Applewhite / Associated Press) House Speaker Paul D. Ryan ( R- Wis.) He's often had to stake out a position when Trump tweets. Indeed, this time was no different. Ryan alluded to Trump’s qualms with Senate rules.“ Look, we’ve got a long ways to go between now and September, but I share the president’s frustration,” Ryan told reporters. “ What a lot of people in America don’t realize is appropriations bills, they take 60 votes to pass. They can be filibustered. So, all appropriations bills therefore have to be bipartisan because Democrats can always filibuster an appropriations bill. Having said all that, I feel very good about the wins that we got with the administration in this bill.” ( J. Scott Applewhite / Associated Press) Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer ( D- N. Y.) He’s Trump’s chief critic in Congress and warned the president that a government shutdown is not wise.“ The president's threat to shut down the government in September is just a very, very bad idea because it would hurt so many average folks,” Schumer said recently. “ I strongly urge my colleagues, and they have already ... said they have no desire to shut down the government. That is not the way to govern. That is not the way to come up with bipartisan compromise.” Voters Public opinion is not on Trump’s side when it comes to talk about a government shutdown. In a Politico/ Morning Consult poll released in April, 65% of voters said that Congress should “take all necessary steps to avoid a government shutdown.” Other polls show similar disapproval among voters toward a government shutdown.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-travel-ban-arguments-20170508-story.html
LOS ANGELES, CA - MAY 1, 2017 - Marchers carry letters that spell out Immigration Reform Now while ma Genaro Molina / Los Angeles Times Protesters in Los Angeles march in support of immigration reform on May 1, 2017. Protesters in Los Angeles march in support of immigration reform on May 1, 2017. ( Genaro Molina / Los Angeles Times) Federal appeals court judges in Virginia gave a mostly skeptical hearing Monday to a lawyer for President Trump as he attempted to defend the legality of a foreign travel ban affecting six mostly Muslim nations. The 13 judges of the U. S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals, 10 of whom are Democratic appointees, must decide whether Trump’s revised executive order is a valid effort to protect the nation’s security or an unconstitutional scheme to keep out Muslims. An earlier, more sweeping travel ban was also blocked by federal courts. The judges pointed to Trump’s statements during the campaign when he spoke of what he saw as the danger posed by Muslims and the need to keep out Muslim immigrants, refugees and visitors. Trump later shifted his focus away from religion to nationality, but administration officials frequently portrayed the executive order as a fulfillment of his campaign pledge.“ Even after the second order, there was sort of a wink and nod,” said Judge James A. Wynn Jr., an appointee of President Obama. “ Are his statements irrelevant?” Judge Robert Bruce King noted that Trump’s campaign website still featured his 2015 statement calling for the nationwide Muslim ban. That statement was removed Monday shortly after reporters asked White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer about it during a news briefing. At issue is whether the court should look solely at the language of the order, or whether judges should consider the motivations behind the president’s actions, particularly if the intent violates constitutional prohibitions against favoring one religion over another. A lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union ran into equally sharp questions from several judges who said they did not see why the courts should second-guess the president’s judgment involving a matter of national security. Trump has argued the temporary ban is necessary to protect Americans from possible terrorist attacks. Judge Paul Niemeyer, an appointee of President George H. W. Bush, said several of the targeted nations are “state sponsors of terrorism. People coming from there are high risk. And you are saying there’s something wrong with that?” He said judges should not be deciding whether screening at the border is justified. “ I don’t know where this stops,” he said. The ACLU’s attorney, Omar Jadwat, insisted the Trump’s own words had shown that the travel ban was mostly a gesture toward filling a campaign promise. He said national security experts had said there was no need for shutting off new arrivals from the six countries. His legal argument rested on the 1st Amendment’s ban on laws “respecting an establishment of religion.”“ The Establishment Clause prohibits denigrating and targeting religion,” he said. Jadwat’s best moment came when he asked the judges to consider the possibility of a hypothetical anti- Semitic president who says, “ I don’t like Jews. I don’t want them in the country.” Then, after being elected, he issues an executive order banning new arrivals from Israel because that nation has experienced terrorism. Judges should have no trouble concluding such an order would be illegitimate and unconstitutional, he said. Meanwhile, Jeffrey Wall, acting U. S. solicitor general, argued that Supreme Court’s precedents give the chief executive broad power to restrict foreigners from entering the country. He repeatedly cited a 1972 decision in which the justices upheld an order denying a visa to a Belgian communist who was due to speak at Stanford University. Professors had sued citing the 1st Amendment and the freedom of speech, but the high court said it would not second-guess the government’s reason for denying the visa. So long as the president “puts forth a reason that is on its face legitimate,” Wall argued, the order restricting new arrivals should be upheld. In this instance, the president’s reason involved terrorism and national security. Trump and his advisors said they worried the governments of these countries — including Libya, Somalia and Yemen — could not provide “reliable information to screen” people who wanted to come to the United States. The full 4th Circuit was hearing the Trump administration’s appeal of a ruling by a U. S. district judge in Maryland who blocked a scaled-down travel ban from taking effect. The original order was blocked by the 9th Circuit on Feb. 9, dealing the Trump White House a major legal defeat in its third week on the job. On May 15, the 9th Circuit Court, sitting in Seattle, will hear a similar appeal of the second order, which was also blocked by a federal judge in Hawaii. If the administration loses in either of the appeals courts, its lawyers are likely to appeal to the Supreme Court. While the judges argued back and forth over whether Trump’s order was based on national security or religious discrimination, several asked about procedure issues. It is possible the court could toss out all or part of the case because only one plaintiff appears to have standing. To have a valid case, the judges said someone in the United States has to show he or she is facing harm because a relative abroad has been denied a visa as a result of the order. Wall also urged the judges to narrow the Maryland district judge’s ruling. It should apply only to the single plaintiff, he said, not the entire nation.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-senate-yates-testimony-20170508-story.html
Yates warned White House that Trump's national security advisor 'could be blackmailed' by Moscow - LA Times Former acting Atty. Gen. Sally Yates discusses what she told President Trump about Michael Flynn Former acting Atty. Gen. Sally Yates discusses what she told President Trump about Michael Flynn Former acting Atty. Gen. Sally Yates discusses what she told President Trump about Michael Flynn Former acting Atty. Gen. Sally Yates testified Monday for the first time that she warned White House lawyers at least twice in January that President Trump’s national security advisor at the time, Michael Flynn, “could be blackmailed” by Moscow, may have violated criminal statutes and had misled Vice President Mike Pence about his dealings with Russian officials.“ We believed that Gen. Flynn was compromised,” Yates, a career prosecutor, told a Senate Judiciary subcommittee investigating Russia’s role in the 2016 election. “ To state the obvious, you don’t want your national security advisor compromised with the Russians,” she said. “ You don’t want the Russians to have leverage over the national security advisor.” Flynn, a retired Army three-star general, was forced to resign as Trump’s top national security aide 18 days after Yates first alerted the White House on Jan. 26, but only after news stories revealed the existence of a transcript of Flynn’s conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. The diplomat’s calls were recorded as part of routine U. S. intelligence monitoring of ranking foreign officials. At issue is whether Flynn improperly indicated to Kislyak that the Trump administration would ease or reverse economic sanctions that President Obama had imposed on Moscow in retaliation for Russian interference in the U. S. presidential campaign. Flynn denied doing so, and Pence later issued a similar denial. Trump's EPA dismisses half of the scientists on its advisory board Associated Press Associated Press Yates’ detailed chronology of two meetings and several calls with White House Counsel Donald Mc Gahn about Flynn’s conduct conflicted with White House claims that Flynn was not ordered to resign immediately because she had only given a general “heads up” of a potential problem. Her testimony adds to Flynn’s potential legal problems, outlining concerns at the highest level of the Justice Department that Flynn’s conversations with the Russian diplomat during the transition may have violated the law. He has not been charged with a crime. It also highlighted the mounting pressure the White House faces from three congressional investigations into Russia’s interference in the election. In March, the FBI confirmed it is conducting a separate counterintelligence investigation into whether any of Trump’s current or former aides improperly coordinated with Russian intelligence. Former Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper, who also testified Monday, warned that Russia’s efforts to influence the election posed a threat to democracy, and that the hacking and leaking of Democratic Party emails were a worrying taste of the future.“ I believe they are emboldened to now continue such activities, both here and around the world,” Clapper said. “ And I believe they will continue to do so.” Sen. Lindsey Graham ( R- S. C.), who headed the hearing, said it was vital to get to the bottom of Moscow’s role in the election.“ The Democratic Party of 2016 were the victims this time. It could be the Republican Party in the future,” Graham said. “ We’re all in the same boat.” Yates, a career federal prosecutor, was named deputy attorney general by Obama in 2015. She served as acting attorney general for 10 days after Trump was inaugurated on Jan. 20. Yates testified that she and a senior official in the national security division at the Justice Department met with Mc Gahn, the top White House lawyer, on two consecutive days a week after the inauguration in a secure office at the White House to discuss statements by Flynn and others “that we knew not to be the truth.”“ We weren’t the only ones who knew of this,” Yates said. “ The Russians also knew.” Yates said that after FBI agents had interviewed Flynn on Jan. 24 she believed it was “critical that we get this information to the White House in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the American public. And we believed Gen. Flynn was compromised with regard to the Russians.” Yates refused to go into detail about Flynn’s communications with the Russians and did not refer to transcripts of the intercepted calls, noting that it was classified. In response to questions, she denied leaking any classified information about the case to the news media. But she laid out the timeline of her contacts with the White House, saying she called Mc Gahn two days after the FBI had interviewed Flynn to request a face-to-face meeting. She went over that afternoon “to warn the White House of something we were very concerned about, so they could take action,” Yates said of her Jan. 26 meeting in Mc Gahn’s office.“ We walked the White House counsel through Flynn’s underlying conduct in a fair amount of detail — what Gen. Flynn had done and how it been falsely reported,” she said. She said Mc Gahn called her back the next morning and asked her to return to his office that afternoon. In that second meeting, she said, he asked, “ Why does it matter [to Justice] if one White House official lies to another White House official?” She said Flynn’s misstatements about his dealings with Russian officials were “getting more and more specific,” making him more vulnerable to potential blackmail. She said that Mc Gahn asked whether Flynn should be fired and that she replied it was up to the White House. She said Mc Gahn also asked whether disciplining Flynn could interfere with the FBI case, and Yates said it would not. He also asked her whether Flynn might be subject to criminal prosecution, Yates recalled. She told him that the “underlying conduct,” referring to Flynn’s conversations with Kisylak, “was problematic.” Mc Gahn also asked “to look at the underlying evidence against Flynn.” Since it was a Friday, Yates said she would consider it over the weekend. On Monday, Jan. 30, she called him back and agreed to his request. Trump fired Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration, that afternoon after she announced that the Justice Department would not go to court to defend an executive order seeking to bar travel from seven mostly Muslim countries. In her testimony Monday, Yates said that she had concluded that the executive order was unlawful and that it was her duty to say so. Since then, three federal courts have blocked the order, and a similar subsequent order, as unlawful. The hearing opened hours after it emerged that Obama had warned then- President-elect Trump two days after the election in November against picking Flynn as his national security advisor. Obama delivered the warning, which first was disclosed by NBC News, when he met Trump for 90 minutes in the Oval Office, according to a former senior Obama administration official. Obama had not planned on saying anything about Flynn, the former official said, but he told Trump he should “think twice” about hiring him after they got into a conversation about personnel. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Monday that Obama made clear to Trump that he “wasn’t exactly a fan” of Flynn, who had criticized the Obama White House policy on Iran after he left the Pentagon. Sean Spicer White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer responds to reports that President Obama had warned Donald Trump about hiring Michael Flynn two days after the election. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer responds to reports that President Obama had warned Donald Trump about hiring Michael Flynn two days after the election. Ahead of the Senate hearing, Trump sought to distance himself from Flynn, citing the decision by the Defense Intelligence Agency to extend Flynn’s security clearance after he retired in 2014.“ General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration — but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that,” he tweeted Monday morning. Other officials said Flynn’s clearance as a retired general was lower than he subsequently needed to be national security advisor. Trump also urged lawmakers to ask Yates about the leak of information about Flynn.“ Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W. H. Counsel,” he tweeted, referring to Yates’ conversation with Mc Gahn. Under questioning, Yates said she had not leaked the information and did not know who did, because it occurred after she was fired. After the hearing, Trump issued several further tweets, saying that Yates “made the fake media extremely unhappy today — she said nothing but old news!”“ The Russia- Trump collusion story is a total hoax, when will this taxpayer funded charade end?” he said. Flynn and Kislyak were in touch in late December, including on the 29th, the day the Obama administration levied sanctions in response to a determination by U. S. intelligence agencies that Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government had interfered in the U. S. campaign in an effort aimed in part at helping Trump win. In his testimony, Clapper repeated a previous statement, in a TV interview, that he was not aware of evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. But he also said that he had not been informed of the FBI’s counterintelligence investigation before he left office, because it was a law enforcement matter. Republican lawmakers asked Clapper about reports that the identities of some Trump aides might have been improperly revealed in intelligence reports — a process known as unmasking — despite rules requiring them to be kept confidential in most cases.“ At no time did I ever submit a request” to unmask Trump associates in intelligence reports “for personal or political purposes,” Clapper said. “ Nor am I aware of such a request by anyone else.” Yates gave a similar assurance that she did not seek to unmask anyone on Trump’s team and did not know who did.
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-pol-travel-ban-legal-analysis-20170508-story.html
LA 90: Lawyers will argue for reinstating Trump's travel ban President Trump will try to break his losing streak in court today. ( May 8, 2017)   President Trump will try to break his losing streak in court today. ( May 8, 2017)   President Trump will try to break his losing streak in court on Monday when his lawyers go before the U. S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in Virginia and urge its judges to revive his temporary ban on foreigners arriving from six majority Muslim countries. It is “extraordinary,” they argue, for a U. S. district judge in Maryland to have issued a nationwide order that blocked an executive action “taken by the president of the United States at the height of his powers.” They were referring to the chief executive’s historically broad power to restrict migrants, refugees and visitors from entering the country. But the judge in Maryland was not alone when he blocked Trump’s revised travel ban on March 16. The day before, another U. S. district judge in Hawaii handed down a similar decision, which the administration has appealed to the 9th Circuit Court on the grounds it was “extraordinary” and “fundamentally wrong.” The two appeals — before the 4th Circuit on Monday and the 9th Circuit in Seattle on May 15 — set the stage for what may be an early decision from the Supreme Court on the scope of Trump’s power over immigration, assuming the circuit courts’ decisions are appealed by the losing side. At issue is whether the president has essentially a free hand to restrict foreigners from entering the country or if his power is limited by the Constitution’s protections for due process of law and religious freedom. Trump’s lawyers are not likely to find a friendly forum in the two appellate courts. Both have a solid majority of Democratic appointees. And 4th Circuit may hear the case without its most prominent Republican appointee, Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III, who is expected to recuse himself because his son-in-law, acting U. S. Solicitor General Jeffrey B. Wall, is arguing for the government. The administration’s lawyers are likely more focused on getting the case to the Supreme Court, where they have reason to be confident with the arrival of new Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, restoring the court’s 5-4 majority of Republican appointees. For their part, those challenging the president’s executive order say it remains a scaled-down version of the Muslim ban that Trump promised during the campaign.“ We think the case is not complicated. The question is whether it is consistent with the Constitution that the government can condemn you because of your religion,” said Omar C. Jadwat, an ACLU attorney who is arguing the case in the 4th Circuit. In the first round of this litigation, Trump and his new legal team suffered an early knockdown. On Jan. 27, after one week in office, the president issued an executive order restricting foreign travel that was immediate, sweeping and confusing. It led to chaotic scenes in airports when foreign students, professors, tech engineers and family members who were living or working in this country were caught off guard when they returned from overseas. A wave of lawsuits followed, and a week later a judge in Seattle put the executive order on hold. The 9th Circuit upheld his decision on Feb. 9, dealing the Trump White House a major legal defeat in its third week on the job. Trump’s team retreated and then issued a significantly scaled-back version on March 6. It temporarily suspends entry of foreign nationals from six countries ( Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen). And unlike the first and more sweeping order, the new ban “affects only foreign nationals who are outside the United States and lack a visa,” the administration said, and these “individuals have no constitutional rights regarding their admission.” But those arguments failed to sway the two district judges. In Maryland, Judge Theodore Chuang said several plaintiffs had standing because they had relatives in the six countries who could be affected by Trump’s order. He cited Trump’s campaign statements as evidence of the president’s “animus toward Muslims.” His words “present a convincing case that the first executive order was issued to accomplish, as nearly as possible, President Trump’s proposed Muslim ban,” he wrote in his March 16 decision. “ These statements continue to explain the religious purpose behind the travel ban in the second executive order.” He suspended enforcement of order on the grounds it “violates the Establishment Clause” of the 1st Amendment, which he said prevents the government from favoring one religion over another. Judge Derrick Watson in Hawaii also agreed with plaintiffs that the revised travel ban was “motivated by anti- Muslim bias” and therefore violated the 1st Amendment. The two sides in the dispute spent quite a bit of time arguing over a 2005 Supreme Court decision that struck down display of the Ten Commandments inside county buildings in Mc Creary County, Ky. When the ACLU first sued over the plaques featuring the commandments, the county responded by adding framed copies of the Magna Carta, the Declaration of Independence, the Mayflower Compact and the lyrics of the Star Spangled Banner. Attorney for the county then argued in court that these displays were about the “foundations of American law,” not about promoting religion. Justice David Souter, writing for the high court, said judges are not so easily fooled. “ Reasonable observers have reasonable memories,” he said, and they need not “turn a blind eye to the context” of the legal dispute. His opinion in turn was cited by the plaintiffs’ lawyers in the matter, and by the two district judges, as the basis for saying courts should not ignore what might be the underlying purpose behind Trump’s revised travel ban targeting the six Muslim majority nations. The administration’s lawyers insist that the dispute has nothing to do with religion. “ The order does not convey a religious message. It no longer contains any reference to religion, and its secular, national-security purpose is set forth at length,” they said in their appeal. Further, it is a mistake, they said, to “simply plop Establishment Clause cases from the domestic context,” involving local religious displays, and extend them to matters of “foreign policy, national security and the immigration judgments of the president.”
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-trump-expenses-20170508-htmlstory.html
Mar-a- Lago, Dubai, Aspen: The bottom line on protecting Trumps in the first 100 days? More than $30 million - LA Times Mar-a- Lago, Dubai, Aspen: The bottom line on protecting Trumps in the first 100 days? More than $30 million How much does it cost to protect the Trump presidency? The Secret Service does not release information about the costs of protecting the first family. But some hints can be gleaned from publicly released budget data, documents obtained by watchdog groups and government databases. This tally by The Times does not include everyday security for the White House or for the president’s official trips. New York police officers guard the front of Trump Tower. ( Richard Drew / Associated Press ) Trump Tower: $21 million New York City said in a letter to Congress in February that guarding Trump Tower costs its police department $127,000 to $146,000 a day and its fire department $12,328 a day. The Secret Service asked Congress for $26.8 million for the year to protect the building. All of that comes to about $212,000 a day, or for the first 100 days, $21 million. President Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping at the Mar-a- Lago estate in West Palm Beach, Fla. ( Jim M. Watson / AFP- Getty Images ) Weekends at Mar-a- Lago: $8 million The president spent seven weekends at the Palm Beach, Fla., resort in his first 100 days. It is impossible to separate protection and travel costs when it comes to the president, because security protocol calls for him to fly in military aircraft. Flying Air Force One round trip to Palm Beach costs $669,186, according to information recently obtained by Judicial Watch through a Freedom of Information Act request. Secret Service costs add $300,000 or so. Palm Beach County says it has spent at least $2 million on providing security for these weekends. The flying costs, Secret Service and local security add up to about $8 million. It’s hard to distinguish what’s for business and what’s for leisure on these trips; Trump made speeches in Florida at the end of some visits. First Lady Melania Trump. ( Carolyn Cole / Los Angeles Times) Melania Trump’s flights: $1.13 million Because the first lady lives in New York, she sometimes flies separately to Palm Beach. She has made two round-trips and two one-way trips, according to the Palm Beach Post. She has also made at least six trips to Washington since the inauguration. The planes assigned to her vary in price from the C-40 at $18,218 an hour to the C-32 at $38,922 an hour. For short hops, she often takes a Gulfstream C-37 at $27,127 an hour. The Air Force declined to provide flight logs. But if she used the larger aircraft for the three-hour flights to Palm Beach and the smallest plane for the one-hour trips between New York and Washington, the total comes to $1.13 million. Business trips by Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump: $1 million One or the other brother has visited Dubai, Scotland, Ireland, the Dominican Republic and Canada since their father took office. The Secret Service won’t say how many agents go on any given trip, but experts said that guarding the brothers would have required at least 20 agents, some of whom may arrive two weeks early. Airfare varies by destination, as does the government’s daily reimbursement rate for hotel and meals ($553 in Dubai, for example). The Times estimated an average of $200,000 for each trip, or a total of $1 million. Ski trip to Aspen, Colo.: $165,000 Each of Trump’s five children, their three spouses and his eight grandchildren has Secret Service protection. In March, Donald Trump Jr., his wife and five children, Ivanka Trump and her three children, Eric Trump and his wife were accompanied to Aspen by as many as 100 Secret Service agents. A trip to the ski town by former First Lady Michelle Obama and her two daughters in February cost the Secret Service $165,000, according to records released to the conservative think tank Judicial Watch. The Trumps cost at least that. Copyright
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/la-na-trump-costs-20170508-story.html
Trump's multiple residences, large jet-setting family and commuter marriage drive up first family travel and protection costs LA 90: The cost of protecting Trump What does it cost to protect our jet-setting president and his large family? ( May 8, 2017)   What does it cost to protect our jet-setting president and his large family? ( May 8, 2017)   On the Thursday evening before Easter, photographers staking out Palm Beach International Airport in Florida awaiting President Trump were surprised to see not one, but two Air Force planes arriving within minutes of each other. Shortly before the president landed, Melania Trump arrived on a Boeing C-32 — a military version of a 757 — with their 11-year-old son, Barron, and other family members to spend the holiday at the Mar-a- Lago golf resort. Her one-way trip from New York, where she lives separately from her husband so their son can finish the school year, cost taxpayers more than $110,000. Nobody questions that the safety of the president and his family is of vital national interest, or that the costs of first family travel and protection have soared in the age of terrorism. But a unique set of circumstances has made the current presidential family the most expensive in history. There is no standard methodology to tally travel and protection costs, but based on publicly available information reviewed by The Times, the total for Trump’s first 100 days was at least $30 million. By comparison, the conservative think tank Judicial Watch found that costs for President Obama and his much smaller family averaged $12 million a year. In the federal budget compromise reached last week, Congress allocated the Secret Service an additional $13 million to cover unanticipated overtime for its agents. It also set aside an extra $61 million to reimburse New York and Palm Beach for some of their expenses incurred since the election to protect the first family.“ Although the federal government does not otherwise reimburse costs of state or local law enforcement for activities in support of the United States Secret Service protection mission, these funds are being provided in recognition of the extraordinary costs borne by a small number of jurisdictions in which a residence of the president is located,” the budget bill stated. Mar-a- Lago, Dubai, Aspen: The bottom line on protecting Trumps in the first 100 days? More than $30 million Barbara Demick The Secret Service does not release information about the cost of protecting the first family. But some hints can be gleaned from publicly released budget data and other documents. The Secret Service does not release information about the cost of protecting the first family. But some hints can be gleaned from publicly released budget data and other documents. ( Barbara Demick) The jump in costs is largely due to the fact that Trump has used three separate residences — the White House, Trump Tower and Mar-a- Lago. Over the weekend he added a fourth: the Bedminster, N. J., golf club where the family has traditionally spent summer weekends. In addition to protecting the president and first lady, the Secret Service guards five children, their three spouses and eight grandchildren — 16 people in all. Since the election, Secret Service agents have accompanied the president’s two adult sons on business trips to Dubai, Uruguay, the Dominican Republic, Canada, Ireland and Scotland. Each “protectee” — as they are called by the Secret Service — gets his or her own security detail even when traveling together. When Melania, Barron and the president’s younger daughter, Tiffany, recently visited Chelsea Piers, a sporting complex in Manhattan, 14 Secret Service vehicles waited outside. And when Donald Trump Jr., wife Vanessa and their five children; Ivanka Trump and her three children; and Eric Trump, wife Lara and their two beagles went to Aspen, Colo., for spring break, they were accompanied by up to 100 Secret Service agents. Ski rentals for agents cost taxpayers $12,208, according to a government invoice uncovered by NBC News. The most expensive property to protect is Trump Tower, the 58-story skyscraper in midtown Manhattan where Melania and Barron live in a penthouse and Donald Jr. and Eric have their offices. The New York Police Department wrote in a letter to Congress that it was spending $127,000 to $146,000 a day to secure the building, in addition to the $4.5 million that the Fire Department expects to spend this year on security there. The costs are expected to decline after Melania moves to Washington this summer. Jonathan Wackrow, a former Secret Service agent who had been assigned to former First lady Michelle Obama, says the costs are justified because the security of the first lady has a direct bearing on the president’s ability to function. Even so, Wackrow said: “ It’s an astronomical expense. You have to set up a massive security structure for the first lady to operate outside of Washington with everything that support the detail, from cars to communications.”“ New York is a very complicated environment,” he added. “ It’s not like you’re working in Billings, Mont.” President Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrive at Trump International Golf Club in We Susan Walsh / Associated Press( Susan Walsh / Associated Press) On a weekday afternoon, cool and drizzling with nary a protester in sight — what should pass as a quiet day at Trump Tower — the building is a veritable fortress girded by at least 30 uniformed NYPD officers and at least that many Secret Service agents in bulletproof vests inspecting bags or guarding the elevators and doors. There also is a fleet of two dozen armored SUVs, mobile police stations, police cars and other vehicles, including a strategically placed garbage truck that blocks the private garage through which members of the Trump family enter and leave the building. More security forces are tucked away in the surrounding high-rises. Mar-a- Lago is another big expense. Palm Beach County says its overtime runs $60,000 a day when Trump is visiting, and was $250,000 for the weekend when Chinese President Xi Jinping joined him. The county is considering turning the Mar-a- Lago resort into a special taxing district to recoup the money being spent on Trump. Since taking office, Trump has spent seven weekends at the resort, each trip costing at least $1 million, with some estimates running up to $3.6 million. The biggest chunk of that is the $142,000 an hour it costs to fly Air Force One. Melania Trump has flown separately on five occasions either to or from Palm Beach, according to the Palm Beach Post. Public accounts of her appearances show she has also made at least eight round-trip flights to Washington, D. C., since the inauguration. The Air Force said that it could not immediately provide her flight records but that each hour of flying on the Boeing C-32 — the largest and most expensive of the three planes she uses — costs $38,922.“ It is all about security,” Wackrow said. “ The first lady needs to be in constant communication with the president and she has no ability to do that on a nonmilitary aircraft.” More controversial is the foreign travel of Donald Jr. and Eric, who make frequent splashy trips to Trump-branded properties. What's at stake as Trump gets to 'see you in court' in two major travel ban cases Jaweed Kaleem and Maura Dolan President Trump faces two major court cases this month over his travel ban this month in Seattle and Richmond, Va., that could end up landing his fight over the travel ban in the U. S. Supreme Court. President Trump faces two major court cases this month over his travel ban this month in Seattle and Richmond, Va., that could end up landing his fight over the travel ban in the U. S. Supreme Court. ( Jaweed Kaleem and Maura Dolan) “ You have people with not only heavy travel schedules, but heavy business schedules with enormous public profiles,” said Dan Bongino, a former Secret Service agent who is now active in Republican politics in Florida. “ Donald Trump Jr. is like a brand in and of itself.” Fireworks lighted up the sky over Dubai in mid- February when the Trump brothers hosted a private party for 1,500 people to open the Trump International Golf Club, events that were guarded at the expense of U. S. taxpayers. The costs have not yet been made public, but a shorter trip by Eric Trump to promote a Trump Tower in Punta Del Este, Uruguay, ran up $97,830 in hotel bills for Secret Service agents, State Department personnel and local law enforcement officials, according to government records found by the Washington Post. A former Secret Service agent said a trip of that type would have required at least 20 agents — field officers, intelligence officers, day- and night-shift agents, and drivers — and that they might have gone ahead by two weeks to prepare. Secret Service agents are reimbursed for food and lodging at the State Department daily rate, which for Dubai, United Arab Emirates, is up to $553. “ You don’t want a family member of the president to go unprotected, but what you really have here are ... taxpayers subsidizing Trump’s business activity,” said Norman Eisen, who served as ethics czar under Obama and now heads the watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The cost of protecting Obama and his family during the previous administration drew the ire of Republican columnists and politicians, including Trump. “ President @ Barack Obama’s vacation is costing taxpayers millions of dollars — Unbelievable!” he tweeted in January 2012 while the Obama family was visiting Hawaii. Judicial Watch frequently skewered Obama for travel and security spending, estimating that each winter vacation in Hawaii cost taxpayers about $4 million.“ The Obamas’ notorious abuse of presidential travel perks wasted military resources and stressed the Secret Service,” the watchdog’s president, Tom Fitton, said in a press statement in December. “… President-elect Trump can immediately save taxpayers money by reforming presidential travel.” Now Fitton says his group has filed requests under the Freedom of Information Act for an exact accounting of spending under Trump and will sue agencies that fail to comply. He defended Trump’s right to visit his home on weekends, especially because the president is working. But he encouraged Trump to play golf closer to home — on the Virginia golf course he owns, for example — or to follow the lead of past presidents and make Camp David in Maryland his main retreat.“ There should be some sensitivity on his part,” Fitton said. “ He owns planes so he knows what it costs to fly one.” To read the article in Spanish, click here
http://www.latimes.com/local/politics/la-me-ln-gondola-20170508-story.html
Hollywood sign Mariah Tauger / For The Times Mayor Eric Garcetti suggested in a television interview that a gondola could transport visitors from the Universal City area to the Hollywood sign. Mayor Eric Garcetti suggested in a television interview that a gondola could transport visitors from the Universal City area to the Hollywood sign. ( Mariah Tauger / For The Times) To snap a photo of the Hollywood sign, tourists have clogged hillside streets and hiking paths, spurring battles in Hollywood Hills neighborhoods and in court over how people should be able to access the iconic landmark. Now Mayor Eric Garcetti has floated an alternative: Building a gondola to ferry visitors to the beloved sign. “ What could we do to actually bring people to the summit, to where the Hollywood sign is, without going through the neighborhoods to the south?” Garcetti mused during an interview on ABC 7. The idea isn’t new to Hollywood residents or activists. Leron Gubler, president and CEO of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce, said the suggestion dates back at least two decades and had been mentioned before by former City Councilman Tom La Bonge. In the past, “everybody just viewed that as a pipe dream,” Gubler said. But after the city closed off a Beachwood Drive gate leading to one of the most popular trails, there is fresh debate over how Los Angeles can both protect neighborhoods and ensure access to the sign. Los Angeles started blocking the gate after a legal fight over hordes of hikers trekking near a Beachwood Drive ranch, interfering with its day-to-day use. Griffith Park preservationists are challenging that move, arguing that the city should have considered alternative ways to protect the ranch while preserving pedestrian access. A gondola “would certainly provide another access point for tourists,” said Marian Dodge, president of Friends of Griffith Park, one of the groups contesting the city decision. “ But it would not resolve the problem for residents who want to walk up their street and go for a hike,” Dodge said. No formal proposal for the gondola exists. Garcetti told ABC 7 he had been discussing ideas with City Councilman David Ryu, who represents Beachwood Canyon and other affected parts of the Hollywood Hills. Spokesman Estevan Montemayor said it was “one of many ideas” that Ryu was open to.“ However, at this point, it’s just an idea,” Montemayor said, stressing that the councilman was focused on a new study that would help guide decisions surrounding the Hollywood sign. Garcetti spokesman George Kivork said in a written statement Monday that the mayor was "open to exploring ideas that ease congestion and encourages creative thinking when looking at ways to give Angelenos and tourists better access to the Hollywood sign and other iconic landmarks and destinations.” In his televised interview, Garcetti suggested a gondola could come from the Universal Studios area and generate revenue to relieve traffic and improve Griffith Park. Hollywood Hills resident Jeffrey Briggs said “anything is better than the current situation.” But he questioned whether tourists gazing up at the sign from Hollywood Boulevard would be willing to go elsewhere for a gondola ride.“ If you’re sitting here in Hollywood and someone tells you, ‘ You have to go take the 101,’ you’re going to say, ‘ Why can’t I just go straight to it?’” said Briggs, an attorney who provides legal advice to the Hollywood Sign Trust. Briggs suggested that the city could instead create a viewing platform in the Hollywood area. Others have pitched the idea of a Ferris wheel. But there has been scant debate on many of the most ambitious ideas, Briggs said, because “no one believes the city can pull it off.” Installing a gondola could face other obstacles: Dodge said the city would have to be careful to avoid spoiling the view from below and pointed out that the sign itself is designated as a historic monument. Gubler, the head of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce, added that the idea would likely have to go through extensive environmental studies. Neighborhood groups might also raise concerns: Sarajane Schwartz, who was part of a group of Beachwood Canyon homeowners who sued the city over the onslaught of tourist traffic, said noise could be a potential problem in the canyons. If the city wants to make money, she argued, it needs to shut down park entrances that are not approved by the parks commission.“ Why would people pay money if they can go to a bootlegged entrance for free?” said Schwartz, whose group recently dismissed its lawsuit against the city. But other residents argue that the city should provide lots of ways to reach the sign — including at the Beachwood Drive gate.“ This park is for the public,” said Fran Reichenbach, founder of the Beachwood Canyon Neighborhood Assn. Gubler said that the escalating tensions over the Hollywood sign could prod the city to finally examine the longstanding idea.“ And now that the mayor is suggesting it,” Gubler added, “that may give it a little more traction.”
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/303218540/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~On-his-th-day-in-office-Trump-orders-review-of-free-trade-agreements/
The executive order signing in Pennsylvania highlights an emphasis on trade in first 100 days. On his 100th day in office, Trump orders review of free trade agreements Gregory Korte Published 11:07 a.m. ET April 29, 2017 | Updated 10 hours ago President Donald Trump .( Photo: John Locher, John Locher, AP)  — President Trump signed two more executive orders on the 100th day of his presidency Saturday, directing a review of U. S. involvement in NAFTA and other free trade agreements and creating a permanent trade policy office at the White House. The new signings raise the number of executive orders by President Trump to 32, a pace of executive action that exceeds any newly inaugurated president since Franklin Roosevelt, who signed at least 99 in his first 100 days. The Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy elevates Peter Navarro, Trump 's principal trade adviser and a prominent critic of Chinese trade policy, to a permanent post enforcing Trump 's " Buy American" policies. White House spokeswoman Natalie Strom said the creation of the trade policy office "sends an important signal to the world that the United States will no longer tolerate trade cheating or allow our manufacturing and defense industrial base to wither and die." Like many of Trump 's executive orders, the decree to review free trade agreements simply asks for a report back from a cabinet secretary. It gives the secretary of Commerce 180 days to conduct a comprehensive review of whether previous free trade agreements have brought the benefits that were predicted when they were signed." Whenever we've ventured into any of these agreements, the forecast has always been that it would be a job-creator. Well, to the degree that those forecasts are wrong, it would be very useful to figure out why were they wrong and what can be done to fix it," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross told reporters Friday. The order also comes three days after Trump announced he would not seek to withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement, but rather renegotiate its terms with Canada and Mexico. Yet Ross said that process could still result in the U. S. pulling out of the agreement. " Withdrawal is the most extreme form of renegotiation," he said. Trump signed the orders at Ames tool company in Camp Hill, Pa., before a campaign rally in Harrisburg to mark his first 100 days in office. The executive order is at least the sixth that Trump has signed directing the secretary of Commerce to produce a report — a fact not lost on Ross, who will have to deploy a significant amount of resources from his department to meet these demands." With so many reviews, we’re probably going to use a lot of the 47,000 people we have there,"  Ross said.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/303313450/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Will-Samantha-Bee-upstage-White-House-Correspondents-Dinner/
Will Samantha Bee upstage White House Correspondents' Dinner?  Will Samantha Bee upstage White House Correspondents' Dinner? Anything's possible this year, when the White House part is missing from the WHCD. Will Samantha Bee upstage White House Correspondents' Dinner?  Will Samantha Bee upstage White House Correspondents' Dinner?  Published 12:48 p.m. ET April 29, 2017 | Updated 15 hours ago The sign pretty much says it all.( Photo: Dimitrios Kambouris, Getty Images for TBS)  — Washington’s once-glitzy “nerd prom” is about to get overshadowed. Late-night TV star Samantha Bee was pulling in celebrities for the first “ Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner” on Saturday — a tongue-in-cheek play on the real bash, where journalists, the president and, in recent years, lots of bold-face names have mingled. But President Donald Trump was skipping the White House Correspondents’ Association gala, instead marking his 100th day in office with a rally in Pennsylvania. No president had declined an invitation since Ronald Reagan in 1981, and he was recovering from an assassination attempt. Still, Reagan phoned in some friendly, humorous remarks. WHCA dinner organizers wanted to put the focus on the First Amendment and the role of the press in democracy. The scheduled headliners were Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, set to present journalism awards. Woodward told The Washington Post the two planned to speak about “the First Amendment and the importance of aggressive but fair reporting.” Look for the celebrities at Bee’s event: TV stars such as Alysia Reiner of  Orange Is The New Black,  Retta of  Parks and Recreation and Matt Walsh of  Veep were expected at her after-party. Red carpet: Samantha Bee's ' Not the WHCD' ' Full Frontal' host Samantha Bee welcomes attendees to her first-ever Not the White House Correspondents Dinner at Washington's DAR Constitution Hall on Saturday, April 29, which happened to be the 100th day of the Trump administration.  The ' Not the Correspondents Dinner' bash, announced in January, got a boost a month later when President Trump announced he'd be skipping the official WHCD. Would there be a (fake) Trump at her event? Bee would neither confirm nor deny rumors that Alec Baldwin might make an appearance.  Jere Burns, who's currently starring in TBS' ' Angie Tribeca,'and Morgan Walsh pose on the press line.  Retta, whose ' Parks and Recreation' character brought " Treat Yo Self Day" into fans' lives, hits the press line in a regal red gown.  Austin Nichols, who starred on the just-concluded ' Bates Motel,' and ' Agents of S. H. I. E. L. D' actress Chloe Bennet work the purple carpet in tandem.  Documentary filmmaker Morgan Spurlock, left, actress Ali Larter and ' Angie Tribeca' star Hayes Mac Arthur greet each other on the purple carpet. ' Top Chef' host Padma Lakshmi and venture capitalist Adam Dell pose on the ' Not the WHCD' press line.  CNN's Jake Tapper spends some time on the other side of the microphone, taking questions from reporters on the purple carpet. We wouldn't be surprised if several asked him about being spoofed on ' Saturday Night Live.'  Tapper and wife Jennifer skipped " Nerd Prom" in favor of ' Not The White House Correspondents' Dinner.'  Comedienne Robin Thede, who served as head writer for ' The Nightly Show With Larry Wilmore' and helped write his WHCD speech last year, strikes a pose.  Actor Spencer Garrett, who played a White House aide in ' Air Force One' works the purple carpet with CNN's Dana Bash.  You may recognize CNN White House correspondent Jim Acosta, the reporter whom Trump famously called fake news and refused to call on during a January press conference following the release of the infamous MI6 dossier. ' Super Size Me' filmmaker Morgan Spurlock and wife Sara Bernstein can probably count on better food than Mc Donald's at the after-party. ' Arrested Development' star Alia Shawkat was last seen playing Alexander Hamilton on Comedy Central's ' Drunk History.'  CNN's Suzanne Malveaux, a veteran of many White House Correspondents Dinners, attends the inaugural ' Not the WHCD' bash.  Jason Kempin, Getty Images for TBSFullscreen The correspondents’ group, as usual, booked a master of ceremonies: Hasan Minhaj of  The Daily Show.  Broadcast coverage was to begin at 9:30 p.m. on C- SPAN, followed by Bee’s event airing on TBS at 10 p.m. Jeff Mason, the WHCA president, said this year would have been different even if Trump had attended, “based on the tension that has existed in the relationship and some of the things he has said about the press. We were preparing for a different dinner either way.” Trump has called the media “fake” and “dishonest” and even “the enemy of the people.” In an emailed fundraising appeal before leaving for Pennsylvania, Trump cited among the accomplishment over his first 100 days, “ We fought back against the media’s lies.” Mason promised that Minhaj would use his comedy chops, without “roasting the president in absentia.”“ People don’t want to come to a dinner and feel bored or preached at.  Hopefully neither of those things will happen,” Mason said. Bee, who hosts TBS’ Full Frontal weekly show, said she planned to focus on celebrating the press.“ We’re intending our show to really focus on honoring the press for all of the work that we vampire from them, all the hard work that people do that go into making a show like ours possible,” she told The Associated Press this past week. The dinner began in 1921, and last year, for President Barack Obama’s final appearance, the crowd included Will Smith, Emma Watson, Kerry Washington, Helen Mirren and model Kendall Jenner. Most people trace the development of the celebrity guests to 1987, when then- Baltimore Sun reporter Michael Kelly brought Fawn Hall, the secretary in the center of the Iran- Contra affair. Contributing:  Associated Press writer Jocelyn Noveck Celebs, press, politicos rub shoulders at WHCD  What happens when politics and Hollywood collide? Some epically good jokes. Celebrities, press and politicos attend the 2014 White House Correspondents Dinner in Washington, D. C.  Katie Couric and Kareem Abdul- Jabbar attend the Yahoo News/ ABCNews Pre- White House Correspondents' dinner reception pre-party.  Wolf Blitzer and Diane Lane arrive at the 100th Annual White House Correspondents' Association Dinner.  Diane Sawyer and Jeff Smisek attend the Yahoo News/ ABCNews Pre- White House Correspondents' dinner reception pre-party.  Cynthia Nixon and Christine Marinoni attend the Yahoo News/ ABCNews Pre- White House Correspondents' dinner reception pre-party.  Nick Loeb, Sofia Vergara, Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Justin Mikita attend the Yahoo News/ ABCNews Pre- White House Correspondents' dinner reception pre-party.  Getty Images Fullscreen
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/303455040/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~EPA-removes-climate-change-data-other-scientific-information-from-website/
EPA removes climate change data, other scientific information from website  EPA removes climate change data, other scientific information from website The Environmental Protection Agency is updating its website and, in the process, has removed a page that explained the causes and effects of climate change. EPA removes climate change data, other scientific information from website  The Environmental Protection Agency is updating its website and, in the process, has removed a page that explained the causes and effects of climate change.  EPA removes climate change data, other scientific information from website Michael Collins  The Environmental Protection Agency has removed a page that explained the causes and effects of climate change as part of a website update.  USA TODAY Protesters chant in front of the White House during the People's Climate March in Washington, DC, on April 29, 2017.( Photo: NICHOLAS KAMM, AFP/ Getty Images)  —  The Environmental Protection Agency is updating its website and, in the process, has removed a page that explained the causes and effects of climate change. The agency said Friday the website, epa.gov, is undergoing changes to reflect its new direction under President Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt.“ As EPA renews its commitment to human health and clean air, land and water, our website needs to reflect the views of the leadership of the agency,” J. P. Freire, the agency’s associate administrator for public affairs, said in a statement.“ We want to eliminate confusion by removing outdated language first and making room to discuss how we’re protecting the environment and human health by partnering with states and working within the law.” The overhaul already appears to have impacted at least two of the agency’s websites – the EPA’s main climate change site and another regarding the Clean Power Plan, a rule put in place under former President Obama to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Visitors to the EPA’s main climate change website are now directed to a page that explains the site is being updated. The website, which launched in 1997, had included detailed data on the causes and the impact of climate change. An archived snapshot of how the page looked under the Obama administration is still available from EPA’s main page. The agency said it will follow proper archiving procedures. Read more: Thousands march against Trump climate policies in D. C., across USASenate confirms Scott Pruitt for EPA chief amid last-minute drama Federal court grants Trump administration delay in clean power case The first website update will reflect Trump ’s position on energy independence and his calls for a review of Obama’s Clean Power Plan, the EPA said. The site that included detailed data on the Clean Power Plan now directs readers to a page with photo of Trump signing an executive order in March to undo that rule and other Obama-era climate regulations. In its statement, the EPA said the language associated with the Clean Power Plan is “out of date” and that content related to climate and regulation also is under review. Environmentalists said they were alarmed by the EPA’s decision to scrub scientific data from the site.“ Cleansing has begun,” David Doniger, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council’s climate and clean air program, wrote on Twitter.  “ EPA website scrubbed of pages on ‘so-called’ Clean Power Plan. Now only alternative facts.” Cleansing has begun. EPA website scrubbed of pages on "so-called" Clean Power Plan. Now only alternative facts. David Doniger (@ddonigernrdc) April 29, 2017 The non-profit Environmental Data and Governance Initiative, which tracks governmental and science websites, called the website overhaul “concerning” and noted that the climate change resources became inaccessible the evening before tens of thousands of protesters participated in climate marches in Washington and other cities.“ The timing of this overhaul cuts off availability when access to trusted information about the science behind climate change will be necessary to enable a conversation about our changing climate,” the group said. The group said it will continue to monitor the website update and make sure the archived snapshot of epa.gov remains online and accessible.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/303088660/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Diary-of-Trump%e2%80%99s-first-days-Highlights-of-an-unconventional-presidency/
Diary of Trump ’s first 100 days: Highlights of an unconventional presidency Diary of Trump ’s first 100 days: Highlights of an unconventional presidency A day-by-day look at the first 100 days of Donald Trump 's presidency. Diary of Trump ’s first 100 days: Highlights of an unconventional presidency Diary of Trump ’s first 100 days: Highlights of an unconventional presidency USA TODAY 's Susan Page asks a panel of White House veterans and presidential scholars to offer President Trump advice after his first 100 days in the White House. USA TODAY Day 1: Jan. 20 Trump is sworn in as president at noon on the West Front of the U. S. Capitol. In his first Oval Office appearance, before heading to inaugural balls, he signs an executive order directing agencies to find ways to "ease the burden" of Obamacare. Day 2: Jan. 21 Trump makes an appearance at CIA headquarters, expressing his support for the intelligence community while attacking the media for reporting that he had a "feud" with them over investigations into Russian hacking and the election. He also criticizes media coverage of his inauguration, echoed later by press secretary Sean Spicer in an angry briefing room debut. Meanwhile, millions of people join Women's March protests around the world, including in Washington. Day 3: Jan. 22 Trump starts the day with tweets touting his inauguration TV ratings and weighing in on the weekend protests against him: " Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn't these people vote?" Top aide Kellyanne Conway makes waves with a  Meet the Press appearance in which she says Spicer "gave alternative facts" in his press briefing in regard to inauguration crowd sizes. Day 4: Jan. 23 Trump signs three presidential directives: withdrawing U. S. support for a Pacific trade deal; imposing a hiring freeze in civilian agencies; and restoring the so-called Mexico City policy that prohibits U. S. aid from supporting international groups that promote abortion. In a meeting with congressional leaders, Trump revives claims of voter fraud, blaming his popular vote loss on 3 million to 5 million people voting illegally. Day 5: Jan. 24 Trump signs five executive actions on energy and infrastructure projects, including two memoranda intended to expedite the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines. In a late-night tweet, he references plans to address one of his key campaign promises the following day: " Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow. Among many other things, we will build the wall!" Day 6: Jan. 25 Trump starts the day with tweets vowing a "major investigation" into alleged voter fraud. In the afternoon, he visits the Department of Homeland Security and signs executive actions aimed at building a wall on the Mexican border and clamping down on "sanctuary cities." Day 7: Jan. 26 Trump floats a proposal for a 20% tax on imports from Mexico to pay for his planned border wall. His plans for the wall drive a divide between the two countries and lead Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto to cancel a meeting between the two leaders. Trump takes his first Air Force One ride, traveling to Philadelphia to speak at the GOP congressional retreat. Day 8: Jan. 27 Trump has an hourlong phone call with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto. He has his first official meeting with a foreign leader, British Prime Minister Theresa May. During their news conference, Trump declines to say whether he supports a reduction of sanctions against Russia. He visits the Pentagon to charge his new Defense secretary with rebuilding the military and announce an executive action to clamp down on refugee admissions in the U. S. Day 9: Jan. 28 Trump 's executive order from the previous evening — which suspends the U. S. refugee program for 120 days, bans all immigrants from seven Muslim countries for 90 days, and orders the administration to develop "extreme vetting" measures — causes reverberations across the country, with stranded travelers, airport protests and legal challenges. The president makes a round of phone calls to world leaders, including Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump also signs more executive orders: one to reorganize the National Security Council, another to strengthen ethics rules for the executive branch, and a third directing the military to present him a plan to defeat the Islamic State. Trump speaks on the phone with Russian President Vladimir Putin in the Oval Office on Jan. 28, 2017. ( Photo: Michael Reynolds, European Pressphoto Agency) Day 10: Jan. 29 Trump , the target of protests, lawsuits and global criticism over his new refugee policy, takes to social media to defend it as a counter-terrorism measure. Some congressional Republicans suggest the order may have been too broad and hastily written. The president also faces blowback after giving chief strategist Steve Bannon an elevated role on the National Security Council. Day 11: Jan. 30 Amid continued criticism over his temporary travel ban, Trump says that stopping terrorism involves hard choices and adds that he's following through on campaign pledges. Former president Barack Obama's office releases a statement that applauds those protesting the ban. That evening, acting Attorney General Sally Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration, says she won't defend the president’s travel ban in court. Three hours later, the White House announces that she's been relieved of her duties. Day 12: Jan. 31 The morning after firing his acting attorney general, Trump mocks his Democratic congressional critics and demands that the Senate confirm his attorney general pick, Alabama Sen.  Jeff Sessions. He meets with drugmakers and pledges to cut taxes and streamline regulations for the pharmaceutical industry in a bid to drive down drug prices. The president caps off the day with his long-awaited Supreme Court nomination, announcing his selection of Neil Gorsuch to fill the seat of the late Justice Antonin Scalia. Day 13: Feb. 1 Trump says the Senate should "go nuclear" and eliminate Democratic filibuster rights if that's what it takes to confirm Gorsuch. His nomination of Betsy De Vos for Education secretary takes a hit when two Republican senators say they'll vote against her. The president makes an unannounced trip to a Delaware military base to receive the remains of a Navy SEAL killed during a counter-terrorism raid. Day 14: Feb. 2 In remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast, Trump references leaked conversations between himself and Mexican and Australian leaders, telling attendees not to worry about his "tough phone calls" and that the country has to be "tougher" in meeting its challenges. He raises eyebrows by also asking for prayers for his Apprentice successor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and the show's ratings, which Trump said have gone "down the tubes" in his absence. And he vows to make good on his promise to overturn the so-called Johnson Amendment, which bans public charities — including churches — from campaigning for or against a candidate for elected office. Day 15: Feb. 3 The Trump administration imposes new sanctions on Iranian individuals and companies, citing the Tehran government's missile tests and support for rebels in Yemen. The president signs executive actions rolling back key financial regulations of the Obama era, including restrictions on Wall Street banks and on financial advisers who sell clients expensive financial products with higher commissions. Day 16: Feb. 4 Trump spends his weekend at Mar-a- Lago, the " Winter White House." He asks a federal court to overturn a Seattle judge’s injunction halting his immigration ban, after he criticized the judge’s ruling as “ridiculous” and a “terrible decision.” In excerpts of a Fox News interview with Bill O' Reilly set to air before the Super Bowl the following day, Trump reiterates his desire to improve relations with Russia and dismisses concerns that Putin is a “killer.” Day 17: Feb 5 Trump continues to attack the federal judge who voided his travel ban. " Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril," he tweets. " If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad!" As the Justice Department appeals the judge's decision, Trump also tweets that he has "instructed Homeland Security to check people coming into our country VERY CAREFULLY. The courts are making the job very difficult!" President Trump watches the Palm Beach Central High School marching band perform as it greets him upon his arrival to watch the Super Bowl at Trump International Golf Club Palm Beach in West Palm Beach, Fla., on Feb. 5, 2017. ( Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/ Getty Images) Day 18: Feb. 6 As an appeals court reviews his travel ban, Trump claims that the public is with him, despite polls indicating otherwise. " Any negative polls are fake news, just like the CNN, ABC, NBC polls in the election," Trump tweets. " Sorry, people want border security and extreme vetting." In a visit to the headquarters of the U. S. Central Command in Tampa, Trump tells troops he is 100% behind them in the fight against "radical Islamic terrorism" and claims that "in many cases the very, very dishonest press doesn’t want to report" on terrorist attacks. Day 19: Feb. 7 Trump tells a group of county sheriffs that he will help them fight terrorism and illegal immigration, and he vows to take his travel ban all the way to the Supreme Court if necessary. De Vos is confirmed as Education secretary after a contentious battle in the Senate, with Vice President Pence breaking a 50-50 tie vote. Later that day, the 9th U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals hears oral arguments over a lower court's decision to halt Trump 's travel ban. Day 20: Feb. 8 Trump urges the 9th U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold his travel ban, arguing that national security is at stake and suggesting that judges sometimes act politically. The president attacks Nordstrom for dropping daughter Ivanka's fashion line, drawing criticism for mixing government and his family's business interests. The Senate debate on the Sessions attorney general nomination turns ugly after  Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren is silenced by the GOP during a speech for "impugning" Sessions. Day 21: Feb. 9 Trump accuses Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D- Conn., of distorting what Gorsuch said about the president's attacks on judges, even though administration officials and fellow senators confirm the gist of Gorsuch's comments. The president also uses Twitter to attack Sen. John Mc Cain over his criticism of the White House calling the Yemen raid a “huge success." Watchdog groups file ethics complaints against Conway for promoting Ivanka Trump 's fashion line during a TV interview. The U. S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit weighs in that evening, refusing to reinstate Trump 's travel ban. Day 22: Feb. 10 In a joint news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Trump reaffirms the U. S. commitment to the defense of Japan but says both countries need to contribute more to military cooperation. He says he’ll take action the following week to strengthen border security in the wake of the appeals court ruling against his travel ban, but he declines to specify what that action might be. Meanwhile, a federal judge in Virginia blasts his travel ban, citing a lack of evidence that travelers from the seven Muslim-majority countries represent a specific threat. Day 23: Feb. 11 Trump golfs with Abe at Trump National Jupiter Golf Club in Florida, while Melania Trump and Abe’s wife, Akie, spend the morning touring the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens in Palm Beach County. It's a relatively quiet day for the president on Twitter, with Trump vowing that cost estimates for his border wall will "come WAY DOWN" once he is involved with design and negotiations. Day 24: Feb. 12 Trump takes to Twitter in the morning to again defend his travel ban. In Sunday show appearances, policy adviser Stephen Miller says the president is assessing all of his legal options on the ban, ranging from appealing to the Supreme Court to revising the executive order. Day 25: Feb. 13 After a day filled with mounting questions and criticism, National Security Adviser Michael Flynn resigns, citing "incomplete information" that he provided White House officials about his dealings with the Russian ambassador. Earlier that day, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau visits the White House. Trump pledges "bridges of commerce" with Canada and says he wants relatively minor changes to NAFTA, adding that most of his problems with the trade deal involve the third partner, Mexico. Day 26: Feb. 14 In the aftermath of Flynn's exit, Spicer says Trump knew for more than two weeks that Flynn lied about his contact with a Russian ambassador and demanded his resignation because he could no longer trust him. That night, The New York Times reports that phone records and intercepted calls show members of Trump 's campaign team "had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials in the year before the election." Day 27: Feb. 15 Amid the renewed questions about contacts between Trump 's associates and Russia regarding the 2016 election, the president denounces "conspiracy theories" about his relationship with the Russians and said "illegal" news leaks brought down Flynn. Trump hosts Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House for a series of meetings. Andrew Puzder, the president’s embattled pick to become Labor secretary, withdraws his nomination. President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hold a joint press conference in the East Room of the White House on Feb. 15, 2017. ( Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/ Getty Images) Day 28: Feb. 16 In a lengthy, fiery, wide-ranging news conference, Trump defends his administration as a "fine-tuned machine," laments the "mess" he inherited from his predecessor and excoriates the "fake news" media. He says he asked Flynn to resign because he misled Pence about his phone calls to the Russian ambassador, but Trump says he didn't believe Flynn did anything wrong by making the calls and faults leakers for providing contents of the intercepted calls to the media. Day 29: Feb. 17 The Associated Press reports on the details of an internal Department of Homeland Security memo from January that proposes calling up as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up undocumented immigrants; it draws an angry response from the White House, with Spicer calling the AP report "100% not true" and insisting the memo is “not a White House document.” Trump conducts his first presidential visit beyond the Beltway with a stop in the Boeing facility in North Charleston, S. C., where he stresses his " America First" trade and economic policies. Day 30: Feb. 18 Trump kicks off his third straight weekend at Mar-a- Lago seeking to calm reports of turmoil within his administration. " Don't believe the main stream (fake news) media. The White House is running VERY WELL. I inherited a MESS and am in the process of fixing it," he tweets that morning. He holds a campaign-style rally in the evening in Melbourne, Fla. Day 31: Feb. 19 Trump is ridiculed for apparently denouncing a non-existent terrorist attack in Sweden in his rally the night before but says he was referring to a Fox News report on violence in Sweden allegedly perpetrated by refugees. In New York City, more than a thousand people protest Trump 's travel ban in the " I Am A Muslim Too" rally. Day 32: Feb. 20 Across the country, anti- Trump activists mark Presidents Day with “ Not My Presidents Day” protests. The president spends the holiday at Mar-a- Lago and announces that Army Lt. Gen. H. R. Mc Master will be his new national security adviser, replacing Flynn. President Trump , right, shakes hands with Army Lt. Gen. H. R. Mc Master, left, at Trump 's Mar-a- Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., on Feb. 20, 2017, where he announced that Mc Master will be the new national security adviser. ( Photo: Susan Walsh, AP) Day 33: Feb. 21 Trump speaks out against a series of bomb threats to Jewish community centers across the nation after coming under fire for sidestepping earlier opportunities to condemn several anti- Semitic acts since he took office. The Department of Homeland Security issues new directives to increase deportations among the country's 11 million undocumented immigrants. Day 34: Feb. 22 Trump and his aides say they’ll roll out a proposed budget, a revamped health care plan and a new tax reform package over the following two months. The president, while meeting with budget officials, doesn't give specifics, but he tells reporters that "our moral duty to the taxpayer requires us to make our government leaner and more accountable” and “we must do a lot more with less.” Later that evening, the Trump administration issues new guidance on transgender students' restroom use, rolling back the policies put in place by the Obama administration last year. Day 35: Feb. 23 Trump meets with manufacturing executives at the White House and later holds a listening session on human trafficking. The Conservative Political Action Conference kicks off just outside of Washington. White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Bannon make a joint appearance at the annual confab, in which they dispute media reports casting them as rivals and say they are working together to advance the president's agenda. Day 36: Feb. 24 Trump starts off the day criticizing FBI "leakers" as he and aides push back on news reports that his chief of staff asked the bureau to "knock down" stories about investigations into possible contacts between Trump campaign associates and Russian officials. At his CPAC speech later that morning, Trump launches into a full-throated attack on journalism, saying some reporters make up unnamed sources for "fake news" and describing the media as "the enemy" of the American people. News organizations protest a White House decision that afternoon to hold a news briefing by invitation only. Day 37: Feb. 25 The president takes to Twitter in the morning with further complaints about the media. “ The media has not reported that the National Debt in my first month went down by $12 billion vs a $200 billion increase in Obama first mo,” he tweets. In the evening, he announces via Twitter that he will not attend the annual White House Correspondents' Association Dinner in April. Day 38: Feb. 26 The president tweets that the Democratic National Committee election "was of course, totally 'rigged' " and takes another swing at the media, tweeting, " Russia talk is FAKE NEWS put out by the Dems, and played up by the media, in order to mask the big election defeat and the illegal leaks!" In the evening, Trump hosts the nation's governors for an annual dinner at the White House. Day 39: Feb. 27 Trump signs off on top-line numbers in a budget outline that bolsters military spending while making deep cuts to other federal agencies. " This defense spending increase will be offset and paid for by finding greater savings and efficiencies across the federal government," he says. " We're going to do more with less." The president rejects the idea of a special prosecutor to look into Russian connections during the election and says, “ I haven’t called Russia in 10 years." Day 40: Feb. 28 Trump uses his first address to Congress to proclaim American greatness and push an ambitious agenda of economic nationalism, declaring, " The time for small thinking is over. The time for trivial fights is behind us." He opens the possibility of a comprehensive immigration deal, pitches $1 trillion for " Buy American, Hire American" infrastructure spending, and says he will propose "historic" tax cuts. Earlier that day, the president signs executive orders targeting a water-protection rule and elevating an initiative on historically black colleges and universities. President Trump speaks before a joint session of Congress on Feb. 28, 2017. ( Photo: Andrew P. Scott, USA TODAY ) Day 41: March 1 A day after Trump struck a more conciliatory tone in his address to Congress, critics predict he'll revert back to the more combative and divisive approach that characterized much of his first month in office. Aides, however, say the president is focused on enacting his campaign agenda. White House Deputy Counsel Stefan Passantino says in a letter that  Conway did nothing "nefarious" when she promoted Ivanka Trump 's fashion line on television and that a White House inquiry "concluded that Ms. Conway acted inadvertently and is highly unlikely to do so again." Day 42: March 2 The news of Sessions' 2016 meetings with the Russian ambassador, contradicting his testimony during his confirmation hearing that he had no contact with the Russian government during the campaign, dominates the day. Trump says he "wasn't aware at all" of the meetings. Speaking to reporters during a tour of the USS Gerald Ford in Newport News, Va., the president says he still had "total" confidence in his attorney general. Later that afternoon, Session recuses himself from the Russia investigation. Day 43: March 3 Seeking to get past stories about Sessions and Russia, Trump spends the day visiting a school in Florida. He uses Twitter to express his displeasure with Democrats, knocking them over his full Cabinet having not yet been approved and calling Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer a "hypocrite" in a tweet displaying a 2003 photo of Schumer and Putin. Day 44: March 4 In a morning tweetstorm, Trump accuses Obama of wiretapping him at Trump Tower prior to the November election: " Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my 'wires tapped' in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is Mc Carthyism!" the president tweets. An Obama spokesman rejects the accusation as "simply false." Thousands of Trump supporters convene near Trump Tower and in other cities around the U. S. in what organizers bill as " March 4 Trump " demonstrations on behalf of the president. Day 45: March 5 In the morning, the president calls for a congressional investigation of his claims that Obama had him wiretapped during the election — while critics accuse Trump of trying to distract from the investigation into his own relationship with Russia. That evening, news reports indicate that FBI Director James Comey over the weekend sought a public rebuke from the Justice Department of Trump 's wiretapping claim. Day 46: March 6 Trump issues the long-awaited revised version of his travel ban, which no longer restricts travel from Iraq, one of the seven majority Muslim countries listed in his original order. The new order, set to take effect 10 days afterward, includes Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Sudan and Yemen as part of the 90-day ban. Meanwhile, when White House deputy press secretary Sarah Sanders is asked on ABC's Good Morning America whether the president accepts Comey's statement that Obama did not authorize any wiretaps, she says: " You know, I don't think he does." Day 47: March 7 Trump kicks off the day by using Twitter to again bash Obama — this time in a false claim about Guantanamo Bay prisoner releases. He also denies reports of dissension within his staff. " Don't let the FAKE NEWS tell you that there is big infighting in the Trump Admin," the president tweets. He praises the House GOP health care bill amid pushback from conservatives attacking the new plan. " We're going to do something that is great," the president says during a meeting with House deputy whips. The plan is "complicated, but it's very simple ... it's called good health care." President Trump greets Jack Cornish, 10, of Birmingham, Ala., while Cornish was touring the White House. It was the first day of White House tours for the public since Trump was inaugurated. ( Photo: Erik S. Lesser, European Pressphoto Agency) Day 48: March 8 While refusing to confirm or deny the authenticity of CIA documents released by Wiki Leaks, Spicer says that "this alleged leak should concern every single American in terms of the impact it has on our national security" and says there's a "massive, massive difference" between exposing the emails of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and other Democratic officials, and leaking national security secrets. The president dines with former foe Sen. Ted Cruz. Sens. Lindsey Graham and Sheldon Whitehouse send a letter to the FBI director and acting deputy attorney general asking for specific information on Trump 's wiretapping accusation against Obama. Day 49: March 9 Trump meets with his National Economic Council and representatives of community banks. As GOP leaders try to quell concerns about the new health care legislation, the president tweets, " Despite what you hear in the press, healthcare is coming along great. We are talking to many groups and it will end in a beautiful picture!" Meanwhile, legal challenges mount from several states for Trump 's revised travel ban. Day 50: March 10 As the president reaches the halfway point of his first 100 days, administration officials kick off a plan to use social media and interviews to promote "50 days of action." Trump meets with House committee leaders and predicts a fairly rapid approval of the GOP health care bill. " This is the time we’re going to get it done," he says. " I think it’s just something that’s going to happen very shortly." He welcomes a better-than-expected jobs report showing that the economy added 235,000 jobs the previous month. Day 51: March 11 Trump has lunch with a group of White House staff and Cabinet members at Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Va. His administration moves forward with plans to dismiss 46 U. S. attorneys held over from the Obama administration amid criticism, and news reports emerge that an intruder was arrested on the White House grounds after scaling a fence the previous evening. Day 52: March 12 Trump administration officials mount a vigorous defense of their effort to repeal and replace Obamacare while bracing for what could be a skeptical assessment from the Congressional Budget Office the next day. Speaking on NBC's Meet the Press, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price says the bill would lead to "more people covered than are covered right now, and at an average cost that is less." Day 53: March 13 The CBO releases its analysis of the GOP health plan, determining that the bill would lead to 14 million fewer Americans with insurance by 2018 and 24 million by 2026. Price calls the projections "just not believable." Trump launches an ambitious effort to reorganize the federal government, signing an executive order that he said would "make it less wasteful and more productive." Day 54: March 14 A senior White House official confirms that Trump paid $38 million in taxes in 2005 on an income of more than $150 million. The rare acknowledgement came in anticipation of a report by MSNBC's Rachel Maddow in which she disclosed a portion of the return. The news capped off an otherwise relatively quite day for the president during which Spicer pushed back against the CBO analysis of the Obamacare repeal and Trump hosted the deputy crown prince of Saudi Arabia for lunch in the State Dining Room. Day 55: March 15 A federal judge in Hawaii issues a nationwide halt to Trump 's second travel ban. Earlier that day, the president spars on Twitter with journalist David Cay Johnston over the previous night's leaked tax return, tweeting, " Does anybody really believe that a reporter, who nobody ever heard of, 'went to his mailbox' and found my tax returns?" Trump also travels to Detroit to speak to autoworkers before heading to a rally in Nashville. Day 56: March 16 In his first formal budget proposal to Congress, Trump seeks to increase defense spending by $54 billion and offsets that with cuts to non-defense spending, including steep cuts to education, environmental protection, health and human services and foreign aid. Senate Intelligence Committee leaders say in a statement that there are "no indications that Trump Tower was the subject of surveillance," a day after the House Intelligence panel offered a similar assessment. Trump also meets with Irish leader Enda Kenny and attends the Friends of Ireland Luncheon on Capitol Hill. Day 57: March 17 Disputing media reports that the GOP health care bill is in political trouble, Trump says he is "100% behind" the plan and is working with skeptical conservatives. He welcomes German Chancellor Angela Merkel to the White House after months of back-and-forth between the two leaders. During their news conference, Trump again defends his surveillance allegations. " At least we have something in common, perhaps," he says, referencing past disclosures during the Obama administration that Merkel's cellphone had been monitored. Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel walk down the Cross Hall to enter the East Room for a joint press conference at the White House on March 17, 2017. ( Photo: Michael Reynolds, European Pressphoto Agency) Day 58: March 18 The president spends the weekend at Mar-a- Lago. In a pair of morning tweets, Trump lashes out at the media and Germany: " Despite what you have heard from the FAKE NEWS, I had a GREAT meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes ... vast sums of money to NATO & the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany!" Meanwhile, at the White House, the Secret Service apprehends a person who jumped a bike rack near the security perimeter. Day 59: March 19 A day before a high-stakes hearing featuring Comey's testimony, the leaders of the House Intelligence Committee say on Sunday talk shows that there's no evidence to back Trump 's claims that Obama wiretapped him, though the committee's chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes, says investigators are looking at other types of possible surveillance of Trump and his aides during the campaign. Day 60: March 20 Appearing before the House Intelligence Committee, Comey says the FBI and DOJ have "no information to support’’ Trump ’s assertions that Obama wiretapped him, and he also confirms for the first time publicly that the FBI is investigating Russian interference in the election. Trump heads to Kentucky to take part in a rally to build support for the GOP health care bill. Day 61: March 21 The morning after congressional Republicans released a modified version of their health care legislation seeking to win more conservative votes, Trump meets with GOP lawmakers on Capitol Hill, emphasizing how important it is that they stay united to pass the legislation. The president also signs a $19.5 billion bill to fund NASA programs and reaffirm what he called a "national commitment" to "human space exploration." Day 62: March 22 The White House dismisses a report that Trump 's former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, received a $10 million contract a decade ago to advance the interests of Putin. Nunes says communications involving members of Trump 's transition group were "incidentally collected'' by intelligence officials after the election. The president meets with members of the Congressional Black Caucus, and negotiations continue over the looming health care vote in the House. Day 63: March 23 In a setback to Trump and Speaker Paul Ryan's efforts to repeal Obamacare, the House postpones its vote on the bill as negotiations continue with both conservative and moderate groups. The president touts the House Intelligence chairman's assertion that spy agencies engaged in "incidental collection" of Trump associates' communications, saying it's evidence to support his claim that Obama "wiretapped" Trump Tower. Trump also holds a listening session on health care at the White House with truckers and trucking CEOs. President Trump gets in the driver's seat of an 18-wheeler while meeting with truck drivers and trucking CEOs on the South Portico prior to their meeting to discuss health care at the White House on March 23, 2017. ( Photo: Jim Lo Scalzo, European Pressphoto Agency) Day 64: March 24 As the Obamacare repeal bill bleeds GOP support ahead of its rescheduled vote, Ryan pulls the legislation from consideration — a major bump in the road for  Trump 's campaign promise to repeal and replace the health care law. The president blames the bill's failure on the lack of Democratic support. Earlier that day, Trump signs a permit to allow the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, calling it "a great day for American jobs." Day 65: March 25 The morning after Republicans' Obamacare repeal plan fell apart in Congress, Trump tweets, " Obama Care will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE. Do not worry!" The president stays in the D. C. area for the weekend, venturing to Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Va. Day 66: March 26 Trump takes aim at the House Freedom Caucus in a morning tweet: " Democrats are smiling in D. C. that the Freedom Caucus, with the help of Club For Growth and Heritage, have saved Planned Parenthood & Ocare!" In Sunday show appearances, Priebus and budget director Mick Mulvaney say Trump has not blamed  Ryan for the failure of the Obamacare repeal bill. Day 67: March 27 Trump taps son-in-law Jared Kushner to lead a new White House office designed to bring ideas from the private sector into the federal government. The president rolls back more Obama-era regulations, signing four bills that reverse rules on education, land use and federal purchasing, and he holds a meeting at the White House with female small-business owners. Day 68: March 28 Trump signs an executive order on energy independence, a sweeping repudiation of Obama-era environmental initiatives that substitutes a strategy of combating climate change through international cooperation for an America-first energy policy. Nunes faces pressure to recuse himself or step down as leader of the investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. Day 69: March 29 The president kicks off the day with complaints on Twitter about the media. " Remember when the failing @nytimes apologized to its subscribers, right after the election, because their coverage was so wrong. Now worse!" he tweets. Trump later holds an opioid abuse listening session, joined by New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, leader of the White House's new commission to combat the opioid crisis. Day 70: March 30 Trump takes to Twitter to threaten the conservative group that opposed him on health care: " The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don't get on the team, & fast. We must fight them, & Dems, in 2018! " Later that day, The New York Times reports that two White House officials played a role in providing intelligence reports to Nunes. The president meets with Denmark’s prime minister, Lars Lokke Rasmussen. President Trump greets Denmark's prime minister, Lars Lokke Rasmussen, outside the West Wing of the White House on March 30, 2017. ( Photo: Brendan Smialowski, AFP/ Getty Images) Day 71: March 31 While Trump encourages Flynn to offer testimony to investigators in exchange for immunity, congressional leaders investigating Russia's interference in the election signal that it's too early to consider such an agreement. Trump promises to crack down on "foreign importers that cheat" with two executive orders that he said would lead to a historic reversal of the nation's trade deficit. Day 72: April 1 Trump kicks off another Saturday with tweets attacking the media, with NBC's Chuck Todd as the target: " When will Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd and @ NBCNews start talking about the Obama SURVEILLANCE SCANDAL and stop with the FakeTrump/ Russia story?" The president also uses Twitter to praise a New York Times article on Obamacare, though he still describes the newspaper as "failing." Day 73: April 2 Trump expresses confidence, both on social media and at the golf course, that he and aides can resurrect their attempt to repeal Obamacare. Before hitting the links with one of his critics on health care, Republican Sen. Rand Paul, the president tweets: " Anybody (especially Fake News media) who thinks that Repeal & Replace of Obama Care is dead does not know the love and strength in R Party!" Day 74: April 3 Trump welcomes Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al- Sisi to the White House, praises him for doing a "fantastic job," and solicits his help in the fight against terrorism. The president donates $78,333.32 — his salary since taking office — to the National Park Service. Senate Democrats reach the threshold required to block Gorsuch's confirmation, setting up a major Senate rules change later in the week for the GOP to advance the Supreme Court nomination. Day 75: April 4 Former national security adviser Susan Rice, appearing on MSNBC, says she didn't seek to "unmask" the names of Trump associates for political purposes. Meanwhile, in a statement on a chemical attack in Syria, Trump blames the Assad regime and calls it a consequence of the Obama administration’s “weakness and irresolution.” The president promotes his " America First" domestic plan at the North America’s Building Trades Unions national legislative conference. Day 76: April 5 A senior White House official confirms Trump has removed Bannon from the National Security Council and says Bannon was given the post as a check on Flynn. In an interview with The New York Times, Trump floats the possibility that Rice committed a crime, but he provides no evidence. In a news conference with Jordan's King Abdullah, the president denounces the chemical attack in Syria and suggests his administration will develop a new policy toward Bashar al- Assad's government. Day 77: April 6 Trump orders a cruise missile strike against Syria, saying "no child of God should ever suffer" the horror of the chemical weapons attack Syria launched on its own people. Earlier that day, Trump meets with Wounded Warriors at the White House before heading to Mar-a- Lago to host a summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping, and Senate Republicans invoke the "nuclear option" to strip Democrats of their power to block Trump 's Supreme Court nominee from being confirmed. President Trump walks to the podium to speak about the missile strike on Syria on April 6, 2017, at Mar-a- Lago in Palm Beach, Fla. ( Photo: Alex Brandon, AP) Day 78: April 7 Trump 's decision to strike Syria in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack draws wide political support, though some lawmakers say he should have consulted with Congress, while Russia said the strike would undermine international cooperation. The president concludes his meetings with the Chinese president at Mar-a- Lago, and his Supreme Court nominee is confirmed by the Senate. Day 79:  April 8 Trump does not rule out additional military action against Syria, telling Congress that he was acting "in the vital national security and foreign policy interests of the United States" when he ordered the launch of cruise missiles at a Syrian air field. He provides his justification in a letter to Congress under the War Powers Resolution. Kushner and Bannon hold a negotiation session to try to mend a rift that triggered speculation about a White House staff shakeup. Day 80:  April 9 Administration officials confirm that Trump will ask K. T. Mc Farland to step down as deputy national security adviser and serve instead as ambassador to Singapore, giving Mc Master a chance to pick his own lieutenant. The president heads back to D. C. in the afternoon following a weekend at Mar-a- Lago. Day 81: April 10 Trump takes part in the swearing-in ceremony for Gorsuch. The White House echoes its threat of additional missile strikes against Syria if Assad's government again uses chemical weapons, and Trump aides say the administration is reworking its tax reform plan and doesn't know whether it can put together a final proposal before Congress' August recess. Day 82: April 11 Spicer makes waves during the daily briefing when he states, while comparing Assad and Adolf Hitler, that Hitler "didn't even use chemical weapons." He attempts to clarify by saying Hitler "was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing." In a second attempt to clarify, he says he was "trying to draw a contrast of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on innocent people." Meanwhile, the White House says there's overwhelming evidence that Syria used a sarin nerve agent to attack opponents of the government and that Russia is trying to help Assad's government cover up the illegal use of chemical weapons. President Trump speaks during a strategic and policy discussion with CEOs in the State Department Library in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington on April 11, 2017. ( Photo: Olivier Douliery, Pool/ European Pressphoto Agency) Day 83: April 12 Trump meets with NATO Secretary- General Jens Stoltenberg and says at a press conference afterward that he's satisfied that NATO has responded to the criticism he leveled at it during his campaign: " I said it was obsolete. It is no longer obsolete." He also says relations with Russia "may be at an all-time low" following Syria's use of chemical weapons the previous week and the U. S. airstrike that followed. Day 84: April 13 The U. S. military announces an attack on an Islamic State tunnel complex in Afghanistan, and Trump says he endorsed the strike. Asked about the use of the "mother of all bombs," Trump says "what I do is I authorize my military. ... We have given them total authorization and that’s what they’re doing and frankly that’s why they’ve been so successful lately." The president tweets on foreign policy, including on North Korea: " I have great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea. If they are unable to do so, the U. S., with its allies, will! U. S. A." Day 85: April 14 Trump hits the golf course at Mar-a- Lago as he and his aides braced for what North Korea calls a "big event." Administration officials say they are hopeful that China can dissuade its communist neighbor from conducting a nuclear explosion or a missile test. The Trump administration says records of visitors to the White House will stay secret until at least five years after Trump leaves office, a reversal of policy quickly denounced by advocates of transparent government. Day 86: April 15 North Korea attempts to launch a new missile, but the device blows up almost immediately. Pence arrives in Seoul hours after the failed missile test and says U. S. resolve to support and defend South Korea is unwavering "in these troubled times." Meanwhile, thousands of protesters gather in U. S. cities for Tax Day rallies and marches, demanding that Trump release his tax returns. Day 87: April 16 The Trump administration takes a low-key approach to the previous day's failed missile test in North Korea and continues to express hope that China will rein in its nuclear-armed neighbor. The president says he's unimpressed with tax protests over the weekend and indicates he has no plans to release his tax returns anytime soon. " Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over!" Trump tweets. He returns to D. C. after spending Easter weekend in Mar-a- Lago. Day 88: April 17 Trump marks his first Easter Egg Roll by defending his record in office. " We will be stronger and bigger and better as a nation than ever before and we are right on track," he says during remarks on the South Portico balcony. The White House declines to detail Trump 's future strategy toward North Korea, even as its government threatens more missile tests. " I think that the action that he took in Syria shows that when appropriate this president will take decisive action," Spicer says. President Trump , joined by the Easter Bunny, speaks from the Truman Balcony during the White House Easter Egg Roll on April,17, 2017. ( Photo: Carolyn Kaster, AP) Day 89: April 18 Trump heads to Snap- On Tools in Kenosha, Wis., to speak about manufacturing and sign a " Buy American, Hire American" executive order. The order clamps down on guest worker visas and requires agencies to buy more goods and services from U. S. companies and workers. Watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington expands a lawsuit against the president, adding new plaintiffs who claim they are hurt by the "unfair" advantage he enjoys in the hotel and restaurant industry. Day 90: April 19 With the closely watched special election in Georgia headed to a runoff, Trump pats himself on the back: " Despite major outside money, FAKE media support and eleven Republican candidates, BIG " R" win with runoff in Georgia. Glad to be of help!" he tweets. He signs the Veterans Choice Program Extension and Improvement Act and welcomes the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots to the White House. Day 91: April 20 The Trump administration launches an investigation into whether steel imports threaten national security, a move aimed at China's growing dominance in steel production. The president welcomes Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni to the White House. During their joint press conference, Trump says he's confident he can block North Korea's nuclear program, get a health care bill though the House, and avoid a looming government shutdown. Day 92: April 21 With a little over a week before Trump hits the 100-day mark of his presidency, he tweets, " No matter how much I accomplish during the ridiculous standard of the first 100 days, & it has been a lot (including S. C.), media will kill!" Trump aims to dismantle even more financial regulations with executive orders, directing Treasury officials to take another look at tax rules and oversight of "too big to fail" financial institutions. The president also says he intends to unveil a tax reform plan the following week. Day 93: April 22 Trump announces his plans for the night of the annual dinner of White House correspondents — and the 100th day of his presidency. " Next Saturday night I will be holding a BIG rally in Pennsylvania. Look forward to it!" he tweets. He makes his his first official visit to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, awarding a Purple Heart to a soldier injured in Afghanistan. People take part in protests across the country as part of the the March for Science. Day 94: April 23 As the 100-day mark approaches, Trump and his staff plan a busy week of events — including a new tax reform outline, a renewed effort to get a health care bill through the House, a high-profile National Rifle Association speech and a 100th day rally in Pennsylvania — all topped by the need for a new spending bill to keep the government open. Day 95: April 24 Trump speaks with astronauts aboard the International Space Station, lauding NASA's work and praising a crew member who set a record for longest time spent in space. As his administration slaps new sanctions on Syria, Trump tells a group of U. N. diplomats that they need to work harder to confront the Syrian government and other "serious and growing threats" such as North Korea. He attempts to atone for past blunders on the history of the Holocaust with a strongly worded Week of Remembrance proclamation, pledging that "we must never forget" the annihilation of 6 million Jews by Nazi Germany. President Trump and daughter Ivanka Trump look at their notes while speaking via video with NASA astronauts aboard the International Space Station from the Oval Office of the White House on April 24, 2017. ( Photo: Brendan Smialowski, AFP/ Getty Images) Day 96: April 25 Trump vows to fight anti- Semitic violence during a ceremony at the U. S. Capitol to commemorate the memory of the Holocaust. " Those who deny the Holocaust are an accomplice to this horrible evil, and we will never be silent," Trump says. Later that day, the president expresses confidence that he'll be able to build a wall along the Southwest border but stops short of saying whether he would insist that money to finance the barrier be included in a new spending bill to keep the government open past the end of the week. Day 97: April 26 Trump signs an executive order calling into question the future of more than two dozen national monuments proclaimed by the last three presidents to set aside millions of acres from development. The administration pitches a tax reform outline calling for big corporate rate cuts, a simpler tax code and big increases in standard deductions. After briefing senators at a White House meeting, members of Trump 's national security team said they're trying to coerce North Korea into giving up its nuclear weapons program by cutting off foreign money they need to finance it. Day 98: April 27 Trump signs an executive order seeking to provide more protections to whistle-blowers at the Department of Veterans Affairs. A week after directing a wide-ranging investigation into whether foreign steel poses a threat to U. S. national security, Trump signs an order doing the same for aluminum. He welcomes Argentinian President Mauricio Macri and first lady Juliana Awada to the White House. Day 99: April 28 Congress passes a stopgap funding bill to keep the government open another week, eliminating the threat of a shutdown starting on Trump 's 100th day in office. He signs an executive order that could eventually open up Arctic waters and millions of coastal acres off U. S. shores to oil and gas drilling. He heads to Atlanta to speak at the National Rifle Association convention, where he vows to defend gun rights and reminisces about his election victory. Day 100: April 29 Trump is set to hold a campaign rally in Harrisburg, Pa., as White House correspondents hold their annual dinner in Washington that is traditionally attended by the president. Contributing: Katie Smith, David Jackson, Gregory Korte, Donovan Slack
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302600981/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Conservationists-alarmed-by-Trump-Interior-nominee/
Conservationists alarmed by Trump Interior nominee President Trump on Friday chose lobbyist and former Bush administration official David Bernhardt as his nominee to become deputy Interior secretary, drawing criticism from conservationists. Published 10:29 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 10:33 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 President Donald Trump holds up one of four bills during a signing ceremony in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington on Monday, March 27, 2017.( Photo: Andrew Harnik/ AP) President Trump on Friday chose lobbyist and former Bush administration official David Bernhardt as his nominee to become deputy Interior secretary, drawing criticism from conservationists who said the lawyer’s history of representing oil companies and agricultural interests raises troubling questions about potential conflicts of interest. Bernhardt has led Trump ’s transition team for the Interior Department and is a shareholder of the law firm Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP, where he has represented energy and mining companies and lobbied for California’s Westlands Water District, the largest agricultural water agency in the country. He leads the firm’s Natural Resources Department, which also includes fellow shareholder Scott Slater, the president and CEO of Cadiz Inc., which is pursuing a controversial plan to pump groundwater in the Mojave Desert and sell it to Southern California cities. Critics said Bernhardt’s nomination flies in the face of Trump ’s campaign pledges to “drain the swamp” and clean up Washington.“ David Bernhardt is a walking conflict of interest,” said Aaron Weiss, media director for the Center for Western Priorities, a Denver-based advocacy group. “ He would need to recuse himself from any discussions or decisions involving Cadiz, involving Westlands Water District, involving the offshore clients he has worked with. It is a very long list.”24 national monuments threatened by Trump 's executive order Senate confirms Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke as Interior secretary If confirmed as deputy secretary, Bernhardt would help lead a department that oversees the National Park Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Fish and Wildlife Service and other divisions with responsibility for managing dams and administering 245 million acres of public lands — about one-tenth of the country’s land area. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said that Bernhardt’s experience both in government and in his legal work “is exactly what is needed to help streamline government and make the Interior and our public lands work for the American economy.” Conservation activists, however, said they expect Bernhardt would be an advocate for more oil and gas drilling and mining who would also weaken protections on endangered species. Ileene Anderson, a senior scientist with the Center for Biological Diversity, said it’s concerning that Bernhardt’s law firm has a financial interest in the Cadiz water project, which would involve pumping groundwater from an aquifer in the Mojave Desert and building a 43-mile pipeline along a railroad line to send the water to cities.  Courtney Degener, Cadiz’s vice president of communications and external relations, said Bernhardt has never lobbied on behalf of the company. Still, some environmentalists said they suspected Bernhardt played a role when the Interior Department announced a policy change last month that could facilitate the project. Under that change, the agency scrapped guidelines on how federal officials should evaluate the uses of public lands running alongside railroads. Anderson, who has fought the Cadiz project for years, said she thinks the recent change in the agency’s position is “undoubtedly a direct result of Mr. Bernhardt’s influence.” Weiss pointed to records showing the Brownstein law firm owns shares in Cadiz and has an agreement under which the company would gain more shares if the water project is completed. Asked about that agreement, Lara Day of Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck said in an email that the law firm doesn’t comment on its financial arrangements with clients. Bernhardt’s nomination must be confirmed by the Senate. If confirmed, he would be bound to comply with federal ethics standards. Bernhardt worked as a lawyer and lobbyist for the Brownstein firm before he joined the Interior Department under President George W. Bush in 2001. After holding several positions, including deputy solicitor and deputy chief of staff, he was confirmed by the Senate in 2006 as the department’s solicitor — the agency’s top lawyer. He returned to the law firm in 2009 and was involved in lobbying until November, when he terminated his registration as a lobbyist for Westlands and joined the Trump transition team. Records list $32,150 in political contributions from Bernhardt to Republicans in 2015 and 2016 , including to Sen. John Mc Cain of Arizona and Sen. Dan Sullivan of Alaska, as well as members of Congress such as David Valadao and Paul Cook of California, and Rob Bishop of Utah. Valadao said on Twitter on Friday that Bernhardt “is a dedicated public servant w/the knowledge and expertise to effectively serve as Deputy Secretary.” Bernhardt’s law firm also has a political action committee that records show made $265,500 in political contributions to federal candidates in 2016 , with 66% of the contributions going to Republicans and 34% to Democrats. The Center for Biological Diversity said in a statement that Bernhardt has represented a “who’s-who of special interests,” from energy companies to Rosemont Copper, which is seeking to develop a copper mine in the Santa Rita Mountains in Arizona. The conservation group also noted that Bernhardt’s lobbying for the Westlands Water District has focused on legislation relating to the Sacramento- San Joaquin River Delta that would benefit large agricultural businesses to the detriment of endangered fish. Brett Hartl, the center’s government affairs director, expressed concern that Bernhardt would be a “go-to guy” for Republicans such as Bishop, who has called for repealing the Endangered Species Act.“ In his long career taking advantage of the revolving-door of special interests, Bernhardt has always sided with big business at the expense of our most imperiled wildlife,” Hartl said. “ If confirmed he’d be a disaster for all endangered species.” Republican allies defended Bernhardt’s record. Former Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne described him as thoughtful and fair, saying he was widely respected within the agency for his leadership and management skill. During the confirmation hearings, though, he’s likely to face questions about the companies he has represented and how he intends to avoid conflicts of interest. Kate Kelly, a former senior adviser to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell during the Obama administration, called Bernhardt’s nomination troubling.“ He is going to be working on policies affecting clients for whom he lobbied just months ago,” said Kelly, now public lands director at the Center for American Progress, a research and advocacy organization." We need to understand what he would recuse himself from should he be confirmed," Kelly said. " I think we just need a lot more sunlight." Follow Ian James on Twitter: @ TDSIan James
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/223123356/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Meet-the-new-US-senators/
Meet the new U. S. senators Meet the new U. S. senators The 2017 freshman class includes the first Latina senator along with the first African American and Indian American to represent California in the Senate.  A raucous election cycle ended with very little change in the U. S. Senate, as most of the endangered Republicans managed to hold on to their seats. Here are the seven newly elected senators who make up the 2017 freshman class. Catherine Cortez Masto Nevada Democrat Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto’s victory in the Nevada Senate race is groundbreaking for the Silver State. She is the first woman to represent Nevada in the Senate and the first Latino woman in the chamber's history.  Her paternal grandfather immigrated to Nevada from Chihuahua, Mexico. Catherine Cortez Masto walks on stage in Las Vegas on Nov. 8, 2016 , after winning her Senate race.( Photo: Ethan Miller, Getty Images) The former two-term attorney general replaces retiring Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid. Losing the seat would have been a devastating blow for Democrats, though even with this win they did not take control of the Senate. Cortez Masto, 52, ran an aggressive campaign based on foundational Democratic policy proposals — raising the minimum wage, protecting Social Security and Medicare, and passing comprehensive immigration reform. She was the candidate whom Reid hand-picked to replace him after serving in the Senate for nearly 30 years. Reid helped to remake the face of Nevada by using his power to direct federal funding to the state. Cortez Masto defeated Republican Rep. Joe Heck, a physician who reached the rank of brigadier general in the U. S.  Army Reserve. Outside groups poured more than $90 million into the race, and top officials from both parties were frequent visitors. Cortez Masto will be expected to be a solid Democratic vote in the Senate and be supportive of party leadership.— Bill Theobald Tammy Duckworth Illinois Democrat Democrat Tammy Duckworth easily defeated incumbent Republican Sen. Mark Kirk in one of the least surprising  Senate victories this year. She had led by double digits in recent polls, and a majority of Illinois voters in one recent survey said they thought Kirk hadn’t recovered enough from a stroke he suffered in 2012 to perform his Senate duties. Tammy Duckworth celebrates her win over incumbent Sen. Mark Kirk, R- Ill., on Nov. 8, 2016 , in Chicago.( Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP) Duckworth is a two-term congresswoman and veteran who lost both legs when the helicopter she was riding in was shot down in Iraq in 2004. After a yearlong recovery at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, she went on to serve stints as director of the Illinois Department of Veterans’ Affairs and as an assistant secretary at the U. S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs. On Capitol Hill, Duckworth has made veterans issues a priority, and she helped pass legislation to provide resources to prevent veteran suicide, among other initiatives. During the Senate campaign, she said she would back working with Russia to establish a no-fly zone in Syria and putting more pressure on NATO allies, including Turkey, to help oust the Syrian regime. Duckworth also said public-private partnerships should be leveraged to provide tuition-free community college vocational training, which would be a first step toward free community college for all. She also backs increased investment in infrastructure.— Donovan Slack Kamala Harris California Democrat California’s next senator was the front-runner from the day in January 2015 she announced her candidacy, saying she would be “a fighter for the next generation.” In a sense, at age 52, Kamala Harris is getting the first opportunity of anyone in her own generation to win a Senate seat in California. Barbara Boxer, 75, who announced last year she wouldn’t be seeking a fifth term, was first elected to the Senate in 1992 replacing the late Alan Cranston, who was resigning after four terms. Dianne Feinstein, 83, was elected the same year to finish out the term of Pete Wilson, who had been elected governor, and has remained in the Senate ever since. Kamala Harris greets supporters at a election night rally on Nov. 8, 2016 in Los Angeles.( Photo: Chris Carlson, AP) Harris, a career prosecuting attorney before being elected and re-elected as the state’s attorney general, will be the first African American and Indian American to represent the Golden State in the Senate. She defeated 10-term Rep. Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat-vs- Democrat general election. Her path to the seat was not as steep as once predicted, as former and current Los Angeles mayors Antonio Villaraigosa and Eric Garcetti, Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer decided not to run. As attorney general she is perhaps best known for negotiating the settlement with bankers over illegal mortgage practices that brought billions to underwater California homeowners. She is also known as an expert on tackling recidivism — she wrote a book, Smart on Crime, about it — and making parents responsible for truant children. As district attorney of San Francisco city and county, she was known for antagonizing local police when she declined to seek the death penalty for a cop killer in 2004, her first year in office. Harris is also known to have a good relationship with departing President Obama, who once described her as “by far the best-looking attorney general in the country.” Unlike the outspoken Boxer she’s replacing, Harris has been called cautious. Asked at the only general election debate last month what committee assignments she’ll seek, for example, she said she was concentrating on the election and wouldn’t look beyond it.— Bartholomew Sullivan Maggie Hassan New Hampshire Democrat Democrat Maggie Hassan eked out a win to unseat incumbent Republican Kelly Ayotte in one of the tightest races in the country. Hassan, 58, has been governor of New Hampshire since 2013, and before that, she was a state senator for six years, including a stint as majority leader before losing re-election in 2010. Maggie Hassan waves to supporters during an election night rally in Manchester, N. H., on Nov. 9, 2016 .( Photo: Charles Krupa, AP) During her tenure as governor, Hassan maintained high job approval ratings, with a Morning Consult poll earlier this year gauging her support 56% favorable and only 33% unfavorable. She campaigned for Senate on a pledge to work across the aisle to make Washington work better for middle-class Americans and touted her prior record in New Hampshire, where she froze tuition at state universities and lowered it at community colleges and passed two budgets without raising sales or income taxes. A lawyer by trade, Hassan started in public service as an advocate for special-needs children after the eldest of her two children, Ben, now 28, was born with cerebral palsy. Her campaign said she was driven to “ensure that children like her son Ben, who experiences severe disabilities, would be fully included in their communities and have the same opportunities that all parents want for their children.”— Donovan Slack John Kennedy Louisiana Republican Louisiana Republican John Kennedy pulled off a win on Dec. 10 in the last Senate race of 2016 . Kennedy, the state treasurer, defeated Public Service Commissioner Foster Campbell in a runoff to become the latest soon-to-be-member of the Senate. Kennedy, a former Democrat, had unsuccessfully run twice for the Senate seat. He beat Campbell 63% to 37%. John Kennedy delivers a victory speech during an election party on Dec. 10, 2016 , in Baton Rouge, La.( Photo: Jonathan Bachman, Getty Images) The race had garnered national attention with its unprecedented field of 24 candidates, including former Ku Klu Klan leader David Duke. It also attracted attention when Republican powerhouses came in to help Kennedy in the final weeks of the campaign. President-elect Donald Trump , Vice President-elect Mike Pence and Mississippi Sen. Roger Wicker, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, traveled to the Pelican State to stump for Kennedy the week before the runoff. Kennedy had supported Trump , who easily won the state. Campbell, meanwhile, didn’t get much help from national Democrats. Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards, who is popular in the state, endorsed Campbell early in the campaign, but it wasn’t enough. Campbell had hoped to take advantage of Edwards’ upset in 2015 when he defeated Republican Sen. David Vitter in the red state. Kennedy ran unsuccessfully for Senate in 2004 (as a Democrat) and in 2008 (as a Republican), but he entered the race as a favorite because of his statewide name recognition. Kennedy had won five statewide races and had years of political experience, including a stint as special counsel to former Republican governor Buddy Roemer. During the campaign Kennedy, a fiscal conservative, took aim at the Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s signature issue. Obama is unpopular in the state.“ I want my country back. I’m scared we are losing it,” Kennedy said when he announced his bid to run. “ I worry that America is losing those (conservative) values.” Kennedy was the front-runner leading up to the runoff. He had nabbed 25% of the vote in the Nov. 8 election, while Foster came in second with 17%. In Louisiana, the top two candidates go to a runoff if the winner of the general election does not reach 50% of the vote.—   Deborah Barfield Berry and Greg Hilburn. Chris Van Hollen Maryland Democrat Sooner or later, Chris Van Hollen was going to be a U. S. senator. The six-term congressman from Maryland literally grew up in government. Van Hollen was born in Pakistan, where his father was serving in the foreign service, and lived in several foreign outposts as a child. His father ultimately served as U. S. ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Van Hollen did his graduate studies at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where he met his wife, Katherine, and they both wound up with jobs on Capitol Hill. Chris Van Hollen speaks to supporters in Silver Spring, Md., after his Senate victory on Nov. 8, 2016 .( Photo: Jose Luis Magana, AP) Van Hollen's first gig was working for Maryland's legendary Sen. Charles " Mac" Mathias, a famously moderate Republican. First elected to Congress on his own in 2002, Van Hollen quickly moved up the ladder of leadership among House Democrats. He led the Democrats' House campaign operation for the 2008 and 2010 election cycles, getting a good reputation among his colleagues for being a prodigious fundraiser. The 2006  Almanac of American Politics said Van Hollen, then still in his second House term, is "among the many Democrats in the Maryland delegation interested in running for a Senate seat when one comes open." He took a pass on the 2006 race won by Democrat Ben Cardin, but the retirement this year of 30-year veteran Sen. Barbara Mikulski was likely to be his last shot for a long while. The major hurdle to his promotion this year was a tough primary battle against Rep. Donna Edwards, a more liberal  African- American lawmaker who argued that Van Hollen would be too cozy with Wall Street. The race seemed close at first, but Van Hollen ultimately won by a better than 10% margin. In the general election he had little trouble dispatching his Republican opponent, delegate  Kathy Szeliga, in a state where registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans by a 2-to-1 margin.— Paul Singer Todd Young Indiana Republican Republican Todd Young, a former Marine who mentioned that fact in nearly every campaign conversation, won Indiana’s open Senate seat by defeating one of the most formidable Indiana politicians: Evan Bayh. It was not the race Young had expected. Todd Young, accompanied by his wife, Jenny, celebrates winning his Senate race on Nov. 8, 2016 , in Indianapolis.( Photo: Michael Conroy, AP) After his decisive May primary win over a Tea Party-backed opponent, Young was set to face former congressman Baron Hill, the Democrat he defeated in a 2010 House race. But Hill withdrew from the race in July, clearing the way for Bayh — a former U. S. senator with more than $9 million in leftover campaign funds — to go after the seat being vacated by retiring Republican Sen. Dan Coats. Republican leadership and outside groups – including the U. S. Chamber of Commerce – came to Young’s aid as they had in the primary. The election became a referendum on Bayh. Young and his allies accused Bayh of leaving Indiana behind and cashing in when, instead of seeking re-election in 2010 after voting for the Affordable Care Act, Bayh went to work for a Washington law and lobbying firm and for a private equity fund. The attacks steadily eroded the good feelings Hoosiers had of Bayh from his two terms as senator and governor, even as Young remained unknown to many voters. In the House, Young had been among the minority of Republicans who joined Democrats in voting for a deal to end the 2013 partial government shutdown. His willingness to cast tough votes helped him win a seat on the influential Ways and Means Committee, where he threw himself into overhauling the tax code and exploring a new way of funding social services programs. Young said he hopes in the Senate to be known as one of the “go-to experts” on helping the poor and vulnerable. Young’s political experience before running for Congress included stints with the conservative Heritage Foundation and working on energy policy for then-senator Richard Lugar. While Young, 44, did not grow up in a politically active home, his wife is the niece of former vice president Dan Quayle — who ended  Bayh’s father’s Senate career in 1980. Young has slept in his Capitol Hill office in recent years while keeping his home in Bloomington with his wife, Jenny, and their four children.— Maureen Groppe   Chapters Catherine Cortez Masto Nevada Democrat Tammy Duckworth Illinois Democrat Kamala Harris California Democrat Maggie Hassan New Hampshire Democrat John Kennedy Louisiana Republican Chris Van Hollen Maryland Democrat Todd Young Indiana Republican Share  Meet the new U. S. senators A raucous election cycles ended with very little change in the U. S. Senate, as most of the endangered Republicans managed to hold on to their seats. Meet the new U. S. senators  A raucous election cycles ended with very little change in the U. S. Senate, as most of the endangered Republicans managed to hold on to their seats.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/135833595/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~USA-TODAYs-blog-on-all-things-political
Diary of Trump ’s first 100 days: Highlights of an unconventional presidency A day-by-day look at the first 100 days of Donald Trump 's presidency. April 29, 2017 @ 8:42 a.m. EDT This week in On Politics: Government renewed for 7 more days Even after securing the star of NBC's " Celebrity Apprentice" as the new face of the series, the federal government continues to suffer through poor reviews and on-set fighting between cast members. April 28, 2017 @ 7:51 p.m. EDT Social users care about Barron Trump , travel ban Donald Trump 's presidency has captivated social medi Since President Trump took office, two topics caught the interest of social media users: Barron Trump 's right to privacy and the temporary travel ban on people from certain Muslim-majority countries April 28, 2017 @ 5:14 p.m. EDT Imagine the world through President Trump 's eyes — yearbook style High school never ends? That's the idea behind  IJR's annual project, The Labrador, a "yearbook" that pokes fun at the White House and the reporters who cover it. April 28, 2017 @ 1:46 p.m. EDT Trump 's 5 biggest wins and losses in Congress Trump 's biggest win has been the confirmation of Justice Neil Gorsuch while his biggest loss has been health care. April 28, 2017 @ 11:59 a.m. EDT Michelle Obama dishes on White House life, says she won't run for office Michelle Obama told a group of architects in Orlando that she April 28, 2017 @ 2:35 p.m. EDT Trump 's notes to reporters sound like poems Journalists, take heart: No matter what President Trump says about the "fake news" media, he may still send you a written note. April 28, 2017 @ 10:54 a.m. EDT Trump : I thought being president would be easier President Trump has said he thought being the leader of the United States would be “easier.” April 28, 2017 @ 5:27 a.m. EDT On Politics Today: Just one day left to shut down the shutdown Also: Oh weird, Donald Trump 's tax plan is geared to help Donald Trump . April 27, 2017 @ 7:56 p.m. EDT Fox News host under fire for Ivanka Trump remark Critics slammed Jesse Watters' remark directed at the first daughter. April 27, 2017 @ 8:55 p.m. EDT Here is what is happening with your 401(k): A WH timeline There's been a bit of confusion about what President Trump 's tax reform proposal would mean for your 401(k) plans, thanks to none other than the administration. April 27, 2017 @ 5:22 p.m. EDT What dystopian novels should Rand Paul teach? Dystopian (novel) dreams do come true? April 27, 2017 @ 2:40 p.m. EDT Yes, Montana Dem Rob Quist performed at a nudist resort The Democratic candidate in Montana's at-large congressional race performed a number of times over the years at a nudist resort in Idaho. April 27, 2017 @ 11:18 a.m. EDT It's Take Your Kid to the White House Day Trump spokesman Sean Spicer stood at the podium in the White House briefing room on Thursday, fielding questions as usual. April 27, 2017 @ 10:31 a.m. EDT On Politics Today: Trump 's 'big' tax plan has few details, no cost estimate" We're working on lots of details," one Trump adviser said. April 26, 2017 @ 7:43 p.m. EDT White House mistakenly calls Treasury secretary by wrong title A few hours after  Steven Mnuchin unveiled the Trump administration's tax reform proposal, the White House sent out a transcription of the briefing... with one kind of big typo in it. April 26, 2017 @ 6:14 p.m. EDT Here's what people Googled during Trump 's first 100 days According to the Internet giant, users searched for Trump 140% more than they did for Obama in their first 100 days. April 26, 2017 @ 5:25 p.m. EDT Political books get out the vote' Shattered,' about Clinton's campaign, is a best seller. So is Elizabeth Warren's book. Books April 26, 2017 @ 11:31 a.m. EDT Survey: Investors optimistic about U. S. economy since election S ince the 2016 presidential election, a majority of investors have grown more confident in the U. S. economy, according to the quarterly UBS  Investor Watch report. April 26, 2017 @ 11:16 a.m. EDT Let's compare the readouts of the Trump - Trudeau phone call On the day President Trump imposed tariffs on Canadian lumber shipments, inspiring whispers of a potential a trade war with our northern neighbor, his office released a readout of a call with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. April 26, 2017 @ 10:14 a.m. EDT Trump blasts 9th Circuit over immigration rulings President vows to take travel ban, sanctuary cities issue to Supreme Court April 26, 2017 @ 11:48 a.m. EDT On Politics Today: Oh, you beautiful wall Happy April 25, On Politics readers. We hope you're wearing a light jacket. On today's docket: The Wall and the looming government shutdown. Michael Flynn and Russia.  More 100 days coverage. April 25, 2017 @ 7:33 p.m. EDT Senate Democrats offer 'corrections' on WH 100 days list The White House on Tuesday released a list of what it considered to be President Trump 's accomplishments in his first 100 days of office. April 25, 2017 @ 5:16 p.m. EDT Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross is not amused One thing we know about Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross: The man's got jokes. April 25, 2017 @ 3:18 p.m. EDT Caitlyn Jenner latest to criticize Army secretary nominee Television personality  Caitlyn Jenner is the latest to join the chorus of national LGBT activists condemning President Donald Trump 's nomination of Tennessee Sen. Mark Green secretary of the Army. April 25, 2017 @ 2:15 p.m. EDT Kasich won't rule out 2020 run Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who failed to make a mark in the 2016 GOP primaries, said it was "very unlikely" that he would run for president in 2020 — but he didn't rule it out. April 25, 2017 @ 2:43 p.m. EDT State Dept. removes post promoting Mar-a- Lago from embassy site But where did it come from? April 25, 2017 @ 10:37 a.m. EDT On Politics Today: Everything is looming Happy Monday, On Politics readers! What a week this is already shaping up to be, from the marking of President Trump 's first 100 days to Barack Obama getting back from his vacay to the government maybe shutting down. April 24, 2017 @ 7:30 p.m. EDT What did Trump tweet in his first 100 days? A USA TODAY analysis of the new president's tweeting patterns since taking office. April 24, 2017 @ 9:38 p.m. EDT Survey: Majority of Americans back bigger government With a federal government shutdown looming this week, a new survey out Monday found more Americans would prefer a bigger government. April 24, 2017 @ 1:14 p.m. EDT Trump finishes his Twitter thought three hours later President Trump tweeted Monday morning about why building " The Wall" along U. S.- Mexico border ADDED THIS was necessary. But he left his followers in suspense. April 24, 2017 @ 2:39 p.m. EDT People poke at Trump and ' General E. Watch' President Trump took to Twitter Monday morning to, as often is the case, complain about the media. April 24, 2017 @ 9:57 a.m. EDT The fate of the politically furious Happy Friday, On Politics readers! If there's one thing we've learned from the Fast and the Furious franchise, it's that there's nothing more important than family. ( Except maybe Coronas). April 21, 2017 @ 6:09 p.m. EDT Freed U. S. aid worker visits Oval Office after 3 years in Cairo prison Trump had intervened with Egyptian leader to win the charity worker's release. News April 21, 2017 @ 4:19 p.m. EDT Pence has captive audience for his promotion of ' Hoosiers' Vice President Pence entertained reporters traveling with him to Australia by showing them the "greatest sports movie ever made." April 21, 2017 @ 12:13 p.m. EDT He's back: Obama announces first public event The event in Chicago is billed as a conversation with young leaders on civic engagement. April 21, 2017 @ 3:24 p.m. EDT Trump braces for 'first 100 days' stories The president hit the media ahead of expected slew of stories on his first months in office. April 21, 2017 @ 1:46 p.m. EDT Trump ready to bawitdaba, push health care bill again Warning: A disturbing photo from the Oval Office is contained herein. April 20, 2017 @ 8:34 p.m. EDT Ivanka Trump to skip book tour President Trump 's daughter and adviser said she doesn't want to misuse her position. April 20, 2017 @ 7:58 p.m. EDT Hawaiian senators school Sessions on their state Hey, Jeff Sessions: Hawaii is a state. April 20, 2017 @ 4:46 p.m. EDT Marijuana activists arrested near Capitol At least seven marijuana activists were arrested Thursday as they handed out free joints to congressional staff and federal employees on 4/20. April 20, 2017 @ 3:32 p.m. EDT Sarah Palin, Ted Nugent and Kid Rock visit WHSarah Palin, Ted Nugent and Kid Rock got to hang out in the Oval Office Wednesday night. April 20, 2017 @ 12:59 p.m. EDT Jason Chaffetz on leaving Congress: ' I may depart early' Rep. Jason Chaffetz may not finish out his current term in Congress. April 20, 2017 @ 12:18 p.m. EDT Trump to nominate Scott Brown as New Zealand ambassador President Trump plans to nominate Scott Brown as ambassador to New Zealand, the White House announced Thursday. April 20, 2017 @ 11:27 a.m. EDT Trump blasts ' New York Times' over Patriots photo flap Another chance for the president to attack his hometown paper April 20, 2017 @ 12:21 p.m. EDT Is Jason Chaffetz running for office in 2028? The private sector may be calling to Jason Chaffetz right now, but that doesn't mean that he'll never again hold office. April 20, 2017 @ 10:22 a.m. EDT Stephen Colbert bids ' Papa Bear' Bill O' Reilly a fond farewell" I owe a lot to Bill O' Reilly," Stephen Colbert said. April 20, 2017 @ 4:15 p.m. EDT Famous moments from Bill O' Reilly's career This is not Bill O' Reilly's first time making headlines. April 20, 2017 @ 1:15 a.m. EDT On Politics Today: Bill O' Reilly and Jason Chaffetz are losing their jobs And Trump claims a (sort of) win in Georgia. April 19, 2017 @ 8:22 p.m. EDT The rise and fall of Bill O' Reilly: A timeline After 21 years of hosting his nightly show,  Bill O' Reilly has been dropped by Fox News April 19, 2017 @ 5:07 p.m. EDT D. C. activists to hand out joints near U. S. Capitol on 4/20 District of Columbia residents plan to hand out at least 1,000 marijuana joints on Thursday, aka 4/20, to members of Congress, congressional staffers, credentialed journalists and anyone else who has a congressional ID. April 19, 2017 @ 5:21 p.m. EDT Graham on Trump so far: ' I am all in'“ I am like the happiest dude in America right now,” the South Carolina Republican said. April 19, 2017 @ 2:46 p.m. EDT George H. W. Bush remains in hospital Former president George H. W. Bush remains in the hospital, his family spokesman said Wednesday. April 19, 2017 @ 1:29 p.m. EDT Patriots' Rob Gronkowski offers Sean Spicer help White House spokesman Sean Spicer got an unusual offer of help Wednesday: assistance from a professional football player. April 19, 2017 @ 2:33 p.m. EDT Show More
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/71733188/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Capital-Download-Latest-interviews/
Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers Close  John Kasich says cultural erosion helped Trump rise Read Story Susan Page USA TODAY Headlines Grid List Washington USA TODAY roundtable: Advice for Trump ? Take a deep breath USA TODAY roundtable: Advice for Trump ? Take a deep breath How's he doing? White House veterans and scholars discuss lessons learned during Trump 's first 100 days. Washington5 days, 11 hours ago Washington Elizabeth Warren: ' Fearless' foe against a charging Donald Trump ? Elizabeth Warren: ' Fearless' foe against a charging Donald Trump ? The Massachusetts senator thought she'd be tugging President Clinton left. Then Trump won Washington1 week, 4 days ago Washington Freedom Caucus leader Brat predicts health care passage within weeks Freedom Caucus leader Brat predicts health care passage within weeks Rep. Dave Brat says a "brawl" will follow if GOP members don't deliver on repealing Obamacare. Washington2 weeks, 3 days ago Washington Now Trump wants to be friends? DNC Chairman Tom Perez doubts it Now Trump wants to be friends? DNC Chairman Tom Perez doubts it Tom Perez says Democrats lack trust and common ground with Trump on health care, taxes, infrastructure. Washington1 month ago Washington Elaine Chao understands 'being on the outside.' Why that helps her connect with Trump Elaine Chao understands 'being on the outside.' Why that helps her connect with Trump The first interview with the most experienced member of Trump 's Cabinet and half of Washington's top power couple. Washington1 month, 1 week ago Washington Advice for girls: Former Obama aide Mastromonaco writes book, marches on White House Advice for girls: Former Obama aide Mastromonaco writes book, marches on White House Alyssa Mastromonaco says she had every intention of fading into the background to make way for the new team. Washington1 month, 1 week ago Washington Groundbreaking congresswoman on race, gender and the Joe Biden Hybrid Groundbreaking congresswoman on race, gender and the Joe Biden Hybrid Lisa Rochester is the first woman, first African American to represent Delaware. Washington1 month, 2 weeks ago Washington Mc Curry, Fleischer debate White House turmoil under Trump Mc Curry, Fleischer debate White House turmoil under Trump The debate: Does Trump have two months to get things under control? Or is this what voters wanted? Washington2 months, 2 weeks ago Washington Trayvon Martin's parents, five years after his shooting, weigh political bids Trayvon Martin's parents, five years after his shooting, weigh political bids Fears of Trump : Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin worry he'll reverse gains won since Trayvon's death. Washington3 months ago Washington Sen. Chuck Schumer 'worries' when it comes to Trump and facts Sen. Chuck Schumer 'worries' when it comes to Trump and facts Pelosi disputed the president when he asserted illegal immigrants cost him the popular vote. Washington3 months ago Washington Conway dismisses need for independent hack probe, says Trump may reconsider sanctions on Russia Conway dismisses need for independent hack probe, says Trump may reconsider sanctions on Russia Trump will consider rolling back some of Obama's orders against Russia for hacking, a top aide says. Washington3 months, 2 weeks ago Washington Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies The former British prime minister on political challenges fueled by anger and social media. Washington4 months, 3 weeks ago Elections Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College The surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic nomination wasn't shocked by Trump 's victory Elections 5 months, 2 weeks ago Elections On the bus with Mike Pence: Road may be bumpy, but the candidate sees things clearly On the bus with Mike Pence: Road may be bumpy, but the candidate sees things clearly Pence offers a contrast with his running mate in ways that go well beyond this day's modes of transportation. Elections 6 months, 3 weeks ago Washington Carla Hayden is the first woman and the first African American to lead the Library of Congress Carla Hayden is the first woman and the first African American to lead the Library of Congress Carla Hayden is the first woman and the first African American to lead the Library of Congress, the world’s largest library, created by President John Adams in 1800. Washington7 months, 2 weeks ago Elections Khans blame Donald Trump for growing intolerance toward Muslims Khans blame Donald Trump for growing intolerance toward Muslims Muslim- American Gold Star parents decry rising rhetoric against their community. Elections 8 months, 3 weeks ago Elections Pelosi mocks GOP for 'nipping' at Clinton's heels over emails Pelosi mocks GOP for 'nipping' at Clinton's heels over emails House Democratic leader on Clinton's emails: ' There was nothing prosecutable.' Elections 9 months, 3 weeks ago Elections Mitch Mc Connell on endorsing Trump , battling Obama and playing 'the long game' Mitch Mc Connell on endorsing Trump , battling Obama and playing 'the long game' The Senate leader reassures nervous Republicans that a President Trump 'would be fine' Elections 11 months ago Elections Laura Bush on Afghan women, U. S. interests and 2016 Laura Bush on Afghan women, U. S. interests and 2016 Asked about Trump , she says it's important Americans remember 'what our real values are.' Elections 1 year, 1 month ago Elections Paul Ryan: Obama's State of the Union 'degrades the presidency' Paul Ryan: Obama's State of the Union 'degrades the presidency' A scathing response from the House speaker in his 1st interview after the State of the Union. Elections 1 year, 3 months ago Elections Donald Trump : On raising rates, running mates and Biden's decision Donald Trump : On raising rates, running mates and Biden's decision After 100 days in the lead, it gets harder to argue Trump 's not a credible GOP nominee. Elections 1 year, 5 months ago Washington Ben Bernanke: More execs should have gone to jail for causing Great Recession Ben Bernanke: More execs should have gone to jail for causing Great Recession Recalling hits and fouls as he battled the worst financial crisis since the Depression. Washington1 year, 5 months ago Elections Cheney: Still battling Obama, Iran and 9/11 Cheney: Still battling Obama, Iran and 9/11 The former vice president denounces Obama's leadership and the Iran deal he negotiated. Elections 1 year, 5 months ago Elections  2016 ' War horses' Bush, Clinton lay ground for 2016 race' War horses' Bush, Clinton lay ground for 2016 race Two past presidents say a "bruising" 2016 Clinton- Bush race wouldn't end their friendship. Elections  2016 1 year, 9 months ago Washington Madeleine Albright: Senate Iran letter 'outrageous' Madeleine Albright: Senate Iran letter 'outrageous' On the letter to Iran signed by 47 GOP senators: ' I'm surprised it's even legal.' Washington2 years, 1 month ago Washington Kissinger: What U. S. must do to battle Islamic State Kissinger: What U. S. must do to battle Islamic State The former secretary of State has some advice on how the U. S. should respond to militants. Washington2 years, 7 months ago Washington Carter: Snowden's leaks 'good for Americans to know' Carter: Snowden's leaks 'good for Americans to know' Former president defends NSA contractor Edward Snowden's disclosures. Washington3 years, 1 month ago
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/160675552/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Congress-and-guns-Key-moments-in-years-of-death-and-debate/
Congress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate  Congress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate Congress is gridlocked over guns, but that has not always been the case. Congress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate Congress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate Fernanda Crescente  If passed, the legislation would block terrorism suspects from purchasing guns. Video provided by Newsy  Newslook In the wake of the June 12 Orlando nightclub massacre, Congress has found itself gridlocked over what to about guns — or whether to do anything at all. This has been the pattern in recent memory: a tragedy; a heartfelt speech; a call for action; and a stalemate. But since 1990, Congress has actually legislated on guns repeatedly, sometimes tightening and sometimes loosening regulations. Here's a timeline of key moments in 26 years of gun debate. Nov. 29, 1990 President George H. W. Bush signs the Gun- Free School Zone Act of 1990, which prohibits firearms in school zones. Oct. 16, 1991 George Hennard, 35, crashes his pickup truck into a Luby’s cafeteria in Killeen, Texas and guns down 22 people. Nov. 30, 1993 President Bill Clinton signs the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, requiring gun buyers get background checks when purchasing guns from federally licensed dealers and implementing a five-day waiting period. ( Photo: Marcy Nighswander, AP) Sept. 13, 1994 Clinton signs the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, prohibiting the manufacture or importation of semiautomatic assault weapons and increasing penalties for criminal use of firearms. April 26, 1995 The U. S. Supreme Court decides the Gun- Free School Zone Act is unconstitutional during the United States v. Lopez case. Sept. 30, 1996 Congress enacts the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban, which prohibits persons convicted of misdeameanor domestic violence crimes or under restraining orders from possessing, using or transporting guns. Oct. 21, 1998 Clinton signs The Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemented Act of of 1999, which requires federal firearm licensees to sell gun storage and safety devices. April 20, 1999 Columbine High School students Eric Harris,18, and Dylan Klebold, 17, open fire at school, killing 13 people and injuring 21 more in Littleton, Colo. ( Photo: Michael S. Green, AP) Nov. 25, 2002 President George W. Bush signs the Homeland Security Act of 2002, establishing the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Sept. 13, 2004 The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act assault-weapon ban expires after 10 years. March 21, 2005 Jeffrey Weise, 16, kills seven people and injures five more at a shooting in Red Lake High School in Red Lakes, Minn. He also killed his grandfather and his grandfather's girlfriend before heading to the school. Oct. 26, 2005 Bush signs the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, stopping certain litigants from recovering damages against firearm dealers and manufacturers when guns are unlawfully used. April 16, 2007 Seung Hui Cho, 23, goes on a shooting spree at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va., killing 32 people. ( Photo: Matt Gentry, AP) Jan. 8, 2008 Bush signs the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007, which improves federal and state electronic recordkeeping for use in background checks on people ineligible to possess firearms due to mental illness or domestic violence. Nov. 5, 2009 U. S. Army Maj. Nidal Hasan, 45, fatally shoots 13 people and injures 30 others at Fort Hood near Killeen, Texas. Jan. 8, 2011 Jared Lee Loughner, 27, opens fire at a constituent event for Rep. Gabrielle Giffords in a Casas Adobes, Ariz. supermarket parking lot, killing six people and critically injuring Giffords. ( Photo: Kelly Presnell, AP) July 20, 2012 James Holmes, 28, shoots and kills 12 people in an Aurora, Colo., movie theater. Dec. 14, 2012 Adam Lanza, 20, guns down 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. April 18, 2013 Senate rejects Nevada Democratic Sen. Harry Reid's Safe Schools Act of 2013, which would have required background checks for every firearm sale. ( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) Sept. 16, 2013 Gunman Aaron Alexis, 34, fatally shoots 12 people and injures three others at the Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters at the Washington Navy Yard in D. C. June 17, 2015 Dylan Roof, 22, opens fire at a weekly Bible study at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S. C., killing nine people. Oct. 1, 2015 Christopher Harper- Mercer, 26, shoots and kills an assistant professor and eight students in a classroom at Umpqua Community College near Roseburg, Ore. ( Photo: Anna Reed, Statesman Journal) Dec. 2, 2015 Syed Farook, 28, and Tashfeen Malik, 29, open fire at a San Bernardino County Department of Public Health holiday party, killing 14 people and injuring 22 others in San Bernardino, Calif. Dec. 3, 2015 Senate rejects measures to expand background checks for guns purchased online and at gun shows and an amendment to prevent individuals on the terror watch list from purchasing firearms. Jan. 5, 2016 President Obama issues executive actions that include hiring more people to run the FBI background check system and asks  Congress for $500 million to increase access to mental health care. June 12, 2016 Omar Mateen, 29, opens fire in a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., leaving 49 dead and 53 injured. ( Photo: Craig Rubadoux, Florida Today) June 20, 2016 Senate rejects four gun measures to expand background checks and ban gun sales to people on the terror watch list. June 22, 2016 House Democrats stage a day-long sit-in on the chamber floor, demanding a vote on gun control measures. House Republicans refuse the demand, calling the sit-in a "publicity stunt." Contributing: Donovan Slack   Recycling is in trouble — and it might be your fault Trump backtracks: U. S. will not withdraw from NAFTAWatch: President Trump delivers keynote speech at NRA convention In Gettysburg speech, Trump made 100 days of promises. Did he keep them? EPA removes climate change data, other scientific information from website VA whistle-blowers leery of Trump order creating office to protect them
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302444956/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~This-week-in-OnPolitics-Government-renewed-for-more-days/
This week in On Politics: Government renewed for 7 more days  This week in On Politics: Government renewed for 7 more days Even after securing the star of NBC's " Celebrity Apprentice" as the new face of the series, the federal government continues to suffer through poor reviews and on-set fighting between cast members. This week in On Politics: Government renewed for 7 more days  Even after securing the star of NBC's " Celebrity Apprentice" as the new face of the series, the federal government continues to suffer through poor reviews and on-set fighting between cast members.  This week in On Politics: Government renewed for 7 more days Brett Mc Ginness  Published 7:16 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 7:51 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 If funding hadn't been secured today, government would have been replaced with reruns of " Everybody Loves Raymond."( Photo: Jose Luis Magana, AP)  As we wrap up the first 100 days of the Trump administration, armchair political pundits spent Friday freaking out about an interview President Trump gave to Reuters in which he described the job of president as more difficult than he expected. But isn't that better than the other way around? If it seemed easier than he expected, it would probably be because he was forgetting a key step, like staffing the executive branch or something. Everything's probably fine; he has another 1,362 days to really learn the ropes. Also in our weekly wrapup: Trump 's tax package and the continued existence of both NAFTA and the U. S. federal government itself. It's On Politics Today: USA TODAY 's politics newsletter. ( Subscribe here.) Despite low ratings, USA's ' Government' renewed for one more week Even after securing the star of NBC's " Celebrity Apprentice" as the new face of the series, the federal government continues to suffer through poorreviews and on-set fighting between cast members. In spite of all that, Congress approved a stopgap funding measure to keep government operational for another week to try to work out differences.  The House passed the funding bill, 382-30, while the Senate passed the measure on a voice vote; Congress now has until May 5 to hammer out a long-term funding plan." Today's measure shows the American people that we are making a good faith effort to keep our government open." said House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions, R- Texas. " While this is not ideal, I support this effort to provide our colleagues with more time to reach a final agreement on legislation to fund the government through the fiscal year."" The fact that we are here again at the last minute just trying to keep the government open is sad," said Rep. Jim Mc Govern, D- Mass. " Once again, we have a manufactured crisis at the edge of a cliff." ( In other words, Mc Govern thinks all these recent scripts seem pretty contrived.) If you liked the AHCA battle, you'll love the tax reform debate President Trump released his plan for tax reform Wednesday -- a plan that includes fewer tax brackets, a major cut to the corporate tax rate and increased deductions.  If all goes according to plan, the new system would create jobs and economic growth domestically.  But if everything doesn't go according to plan, we'll wind up with an underfunded government, severe income inequality and a new series of Tasty videos that tell you how to boil your shoes to make a nutritious leather broth.“ Lower rates for individuals and families will allow them to keep more of their hard-earned money and empower them to invest more in their future,” said a group statement from Speaker Paul Ryan, Rep.  Kevin Brady, Senate Minority Leader Mitch Mc Connell and Sen.  Orrin Hatch “ Getting tax rates down for American companies, big and small, will create new jobs and make the United States a more inviting place to do business.” Sen. Bob Casey, D- Pa., called the proposal "a massive tax giveaway to millionaires, billionaires and big corporations at the expense of middle class families in Pennsylvania ... It won't create jobs, increase middle class incomes or grow our economy." Trump forestalls milk/lumber/wall fight I received calls from the President of Mexico and the Prime Minister of Canada asking to renegotiate NAFTA rather than terminate. I agreed..— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump ) April 27, 2017 On the campaign trail, Trump promised to renegotiate or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement, which critics have blamed for the loss of U. S. manufacturing jobs since the 1990s. But just as White House aides were drafting an executive order for the U. S. to withdraw from the pact unilaterally, Trump decided to take the negotiation route.“ It is my privilege to bring NAFTA up to date through renegotiation. It is an honor to deal with both President Peña Nieto and Prime Minister Trudeau, and I believe that the end result will make all three countries stronger and better," Trump said in a statement Wednesday. The announcement signaled a cooling of tensions between the North American roommates, one that escalated (as all roommate fights do) over who was using all the milk. Look for the arguments to ramp back up later this year, because America's plan to wall off Mexico's bedroom is still on. More from Politics Land51 House Republicans: Hey Donald, remember that religious liberty executive order? Where are we on that? Mike Pence can't win.  If he's untouched by scandal, it's just because he's useless Flynn investigation continues; Trump says "thanks Obama" Who wore it better? The George W. Bush " Miss me yet?" billboards, or Barack Obama's " What's been going on while I've been gone?"
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302377638/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-may-take-Arizonas-school-tax-credit-program-national/
 Trump may take Arizona's school tax credit program national Arizona has offered tax breaks in exchange for donations to private-school scholarships for two decades. Seventeen states have followed in the state's footsteps.  The federal government could be next. Trump may take Arizona's school tax credit program national  Arizona has offered tax breaks in exchange for donations to private-school scholarships for two decades. Seventeen states have followed in the state's footsteps.  Trump may take Arizona's school tax credit program national  Published 5:54 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 5:55 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 President Trump points to supporters as he walks off Air Force One in Atlanta on April 28, 2017.( Photo: Jim Watson, AFP/ Getty Images)  PHOENIX -- Arizona has offered tax breaks in exchange for donations to private-school scholarships for two decades. Seventeen states have followed in the Grand Canyon State's footsteps. The federal government could be next. President Donald Trump has proposed investing $250 million into a private-school-choice program, though he has offered no details on what it would involve. Education experts have indicated it could be a voucher program similar to the program Arizona just expanded, but say it's more likely to be a tax credit similar to Arizona's School Tuition Organization program. The Trump administration on Wednesday announced some broad information on the president's tax-cut proposal but did not provide details on specific tax credits that may be included. Arizona’s private-school tax-credit program consists of four separate tax credits, two for individuals and two for corporations. Donations are made to qualifying school tuition organizations, which then allocate scholarships for students at private schools. Individual taxpayers this year can get a dollar-for-dollar tax credit of up to $1,086 for donations. Both Trump and Secretary of Education Betsy De Vos have shown an interest in the latter in recent months, and De Vos' ties with school tax credits and Arizona are numerous. Until her appointment, De Vos oversaw the American Federation for Children, one of the most influential national school-choice advocacy groups in the nation. The organization she founded and helped fund spent more than $200,000 to elect conservative lawmakers to the Arizona Legislature last year. Gov. Doug Ducey is a vocal supporter of De Vos, as are Arizona's charter school and other state school choice leaders. Trump and  De Vos in March visited a Florida private school that benefits from that state's tuition tax-credit program. And Trump in his speech to the joint chambers of Congress recognized a Florida student who benefited from a school tax-credit scholarship.“ We see the tax credit as a great option for getting children into better schools.” While Florida's tax-credit program is larger and garners more national attention than Arizona's, it allows only corporations to donate to scholarship organizations.  Republican bills in the U. S. House and Senate propose a program that would allow individuals and corporations to claim a tax credit for donating to a K-12 school scholarship-granting organization — a nearly identical setup to what exists in Arizona. Tommy Schultz, national communications director for the American Federation for Children, said the group believes a tax-credit program is Trump 's "most likely and most viable" option at this point. The organization is working with Congress on federal legislation." We see the tax credit as a great option for getting children into better schools," he said, saying it would be politically easier to pass a tax credit as part of a tax-reform bill package than to try to push a new voucher program through Congress." We have seen, like in Arizona, tremendous momentum in the states. For the first time in quite a while, we have the opportunity to get something done in Washington, D. C.," he said. Arizona's program provides scholarships to help thousands of students attend private school each year. Supporters say it gives parents, some of whom would not otherwise be able to afford a private education, more access to the schools of their choice. According to the data, more than half of the scholarships are allocated to students from low-income families. But critics warn that Arizona should provide some cautionary lessons for a federal system. Arizona's program has exploded over the past two decades, and public-school advocates say that has come at a significant cost to the state coffers as Ducey and the Legislature struggle to find enough money to fund students and teachers. Leading the way  Arizona created the nation’s first tax credit for private education 20 years ago." We sort of invented the wheel," said Senate President Steve Yarbrough, R- Chandler, who oversees a tax-credit organization and has for years spearheaded legislation on the issue. Yarbrough said he thinks a tax-credit program would likely be more politically palatable to the public than a voucher or empowerment scholarship account program. For one, he said, the U. S. Supreme Court has already deemed Arizona's program constitutional. GO IN- DEPTH: Private-school families cash in on tax-credit program" ESAs, that's the government's money that you're spending," he said. " With tax credits, the United States Supreme Court has said that's the people's individual donation, that's private money. There's a big, big difference between those two." And who better than Arizona to be the model, he said, with a lot of experience to offer the federal government." We've had our stops and starts, ups and downs," he said. " We started off with a one-page bill, and today we have a 96-page Department of Revenue manual." Most other states with tax-credit programs require that all scholarships go to lower-income students. Arizona directs only a portion of its scholarship to lower-income students. The federal legislation proposes scholarships for students at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $61,500 for a family of four. In Arizona, 55 percent of the scholarship money given through the tax-credit program in 2016 went to children of “low income” families, defined as those earning 185 percent of the federal poverty level, or $44,955 for a family of four, according to data acquired by  The Arizona Republic. Slow growth?  Arizona also is unique in that it has no cap on the amount of credits available, which has a direct impact on the state's general fund. Most other states cap their program at less than $10 million. Trump proposed a $250 million cap, at least to start. Yarbrough called that amount "crumbs on the table" of the federal budget. But Schultz said it would be a start." We'd love to see all 50 states participate," Schultz said. " So states that don't have school-choice programs get a choice to participate and states like Arizona and Florida that do have programs can expand what they've already got going on." And if Arizona were the model, the name of the game may be gradual expansion. Arizona officials promised the program would primarily benefit special-needs and low-income students. But they've consistently expanded the program over the years, opening it to all students.  A program that legislative budget staff in 1997 estimated would cost $4.5 million a year now tops $150 million. In fiscal 2016 , according to data from the Arizona Department of Revenue, Arizonans claimed $100 million in individual tax credits. Corporations claimed another $56.6 million. And that doesn’t include $48 million in tax credits handed out separately for public-school extracurricular activities. State hit?  Supporters of Arizona's tax-credit program have for years said its a financial gain for the state because scholarships total less per student than the state would pay to educate that student in a public school. The average tax-credit-funded scholarship, individual and corporate combined, was $3,378 in fiscal 2016 . However, the state does not track how many students received multiple scholarships — a common occurrence. About 24,000 scholarships were issued that year.  The state in 2016 allocated $3,600 per student in public schools, although children with special needs qualify for much more. In some cases, the state may be paying more to send a non-special needs child to private school than it would pay to send that same child to public school. For example, according to 2016 state data, the average scholarship for The Gregory School in Tucson, which serves middle and high-school students, was $4,307. The average for The Orme School, a private boarding school near Prescott, was $7,049. The average for Pardes Jewish Day School in Scottsdale, which serves grades K-8, was $3,617.“ It's criminal how we pull money from the general fund and we just divert it into these school tuition organizations.” But critics have said the program is a drain on the general fund because many of these children would never have been on the state school rolls in the first place. Data seems to confirm that, showing that fewer than 30 additional students have joined the state's private-school rolls in nearly 20 years. According to the U. S. Department of Education's National Center for Education Statistics, Arizona's private-school population grew .06 percent from 1997 to 2014, from 44,991 to 45,019 students. The public school population during that same period grew 24 percent, from 879,259 to 1.09 million. That trend, in particular, concerns critics of the program, who say every dollar donated to a school-tuition organization is a dollar that an individual or a corporation does not pay into the state’s general fund, which pays for public education. There’s no way to know how much Arizona’s program will grow over the next decade because the state lacks a cap. The Joint Legislative Budget Committee staff, which provides data projections on myriad other items as the Legislature develops a budget, has no projections available for the program’s individual tax credits. The “low income” corporate tax credit alone is permitted to grow by 20 percent each year. Corporations must apply in advance to qualify for this credit, and it typically hits its cap within a matter of hours of being opened to applications. This year, corporations will qualify for $62 million worth of credits. The cost to the state grows to $107 million by 2020 and $138 million by 2025 and $165.5 million by 2026 , according to an analysis by the Children's Action Alliance." It's criminal how we pull money from the general fund and we just divert it into these school tuition organizations," said Joe Thomas, president of the teacher advocacy group the Arizona Education Association. " You've got everybody paying these tax dollars, and it's getting diverted to the wealthy. That's really the only people that benefit from all this stuff." Federal education spending hit?   A federal tax program would have a similar impact on federal coffers — decreasing the amount of money the federal government receives in taxes that are then used to pay for education, among other programs. But given the size of the federal budget and the current $250 million limit on the program, the impact to the $4 trillion federal budget would proportionally be minimal. During a recent forum hosted by the Washington, D. C.-based Thomas J. Fordham Institute, which promotes school reform, school-choice leaders said a federal tax-credit program could be rolled out nationwide or it could be set up to allow states to choose whether they will opt in and oversee the scholarship administration organizations. Thomas W. Carroll, president of the New York-based school-choice advocacy group Invest in Education, was among the speakers at the forum." You have what I view as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to get something very bold done on school choice, something that applies to all 50 states," Carroll said during the forum. " I vote for going big." He said he supports a dollar-for-dollar federal tax credit, like Arizona offers." It's not (government) spending," he said, referring to the federal court opinion upholding Arizona's program. " It's individual people's money spending the money they earned in the first place. The government is simply stepping back and taking less money." He said he believes it should be offered to citizens regardless of which state they live in. Critics see it differently. Thomas, with the state teachers' association, said school tax credits are not financially good for states." I would urge every state to take a hard look at where our public school funding is, and that should tell them why they don't want STOs," Thomas said. " We need to fund one public school system in this state." Children's Action Alliance President and CEO Dana Wolfe Naimark shares that critical view of the effects of the tax credit: " It means leaving public schools to crumble and decay.  That is what's happening in Arizona." READ MORE: Vouchers benefiting students in more-affluent areas Why AZ doesn't know where voucher money goes Douglas lashes out over report on vouchers Ducey signs expansion of school-voucher program Did lawmakers get punked on school-voucher deal?
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302308686/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Eye-doctor-accused-of-bribing-Sen-Menendez-convicted-in-Florida-Medicare-fraud/
Eye doctor accused of bribing Sen. Menendez convicted in Florida Medicare fraud  Eye doctor accused of bribing Sen. Menendez convicted in Florida Medicare fraud A Florida jury convicted Salomon Melgen of Medicare fraud, increasing the pressure he may face to testify against Sen. Bob Menendez in September. Eye doctor accused of bribing Sen. Menendez convicted in Florida Medicare fraud  A Florida jury convicted Salomon Melgen of Medicare fraud, increasing the pressure he may face to testify against Sen. Bob Menendez in September.  Eye doctor accused of bribing Sen. Menendez convicted in Florida Medicare fraud Herb Jackson  Dr. Salomon Melgen arrives at the Paul G. Rogers Federal Building and U. S. Courthouse in West Palm Beach, Fla., Tuesday, March 7, 2017. Melgen is facing 76 counts charging him with stealing up to $190 million from Medicare between 2004 and 2013. ( Lannis Waters / The Palm Beach Post Via AP)( Photo: Lannis Waters, AP)  A Florida jury convicted eye doctor Salomon Melgen of Medicare fraud on Friday, increasing the pressure he may face to testify against Sen. Bob Menendez, D- N. J., in September when the two go on trial in New Jersey on corruption charges.“ By having two separate trials, it raises the stakes for Dr. Melgen and gives the government enormous additional leverage,” said Robert Mintz, a former federal and state prosecutor who chairs the white collar criminal defense section at Mc Carter & English in Newark, N. J.“ Rather than being able to roll the dice on the question of whether to go to trial or cooperate — assuming he has information the government would be interested in — he knows with certainty he’s going to jail and the only way to reduce his sentence would be to cooperate,” Mintz said. An April 2015 indictment handed up by a Newark grand jury accused Melgen of providing contributions to political committees and luxury travel, including flights on his private jet and vacations at his home in a Dominican Republic resort, as bribes to get Menendez to take official actions to benefit Melgen financially. One charge accuses Menendez of pressuring Medicare officials about a regulation at the heart of a $9 million billing dispute Melgen had with the government. Both Menendez and Melgen have pleaded not guilty to the charges in Newark. Menendez's attorney, Abbe Lowell, said Melgen's convictions related to "day-to-day operations of his medical practice and the private care of his patients — specifics of which the senator could not be aware, nor has it ever been suggested otherwise."" From the beginning, Senator Menendez has been clear that he has always acted in accordance with the law and his appropriate legislative oversight role as a member of Congress. When all the facts are heard, he is fully confident that a jury will agree and he will be vindicated," Lowell said. A separate indictment in Florida, also handed up in 2015, accused Melgen of bilking Medicare of up to $105 million. Among other things, Melgen repeatedly gave patients unnecessary treatments and billed the government for medication he never bought by extracting multiple doses from what were supposed to be single-use vials. Melgen's attorneys had he was a kind and caring physician who made billing and treatment mistakes. Prosecutors countered that anybody can make an occasional mistake, but Melgen's actions were too numerous to be honest. For example, the doctor frequently billed Medicare for tests and treatment of prosthetic eyes. Following his conviction on 67 counts, the 62-year-old Dominican born ophtlalmologist now faces a sentence of 15 to 20 years. While Melgen may not be sentenced in Florida before the Menendez trial begins in September in Newark, his attorneys would know based on federal guidelines exactly what kind of prison time he would be facing, Mintz said. Read more: Menendez team asks high court to rule on corruption case Judges refuse to dismiss Menendez bribery case“ A conviction changes everything,” said Jennifer Rodgers, a former prosecutor who serves as executive director of the Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity at Columbia Law School. “ He now has an incentive to try to wrap things up into one global plea agreement.” If Melgen decides not to seek a deal, however, the conviction may not have much impact on Menendez and the upcoming trial. Prosecutors in Newark likely will not be allowed to tell jurors about the conviction in Florida, Rodgers said.“ They won’t be able to admit the conviction from the prior case,” she said. “ It’s too prejudicial.” That’s true even though part of the government’s case in the corruption trial focuses on Menendez’s efforts to pressure federal Medicare officials about what he said was a confusing regulation regarding multi-dosing medication. The trial in Florida received little attention in New Jersey, so the public is not likely to turn on Menendez because of his association with Melgen, said Patrick Murray, head of the polling institute at Monmouth University.“ The only ones paying attention are the political insiders,” Murray said. “ And they have decided they’re going to take a wait-and-see attitude on Menendez.” Menendez is up for re-election next year, but there has been scant effort in Republican circles to start building support around a challenger, Murray said, in part because there is a contentious primary for governor under way. Contributing: The Associated Press
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302288012/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Federal-court-grants-Trump-administration-delay-in-clean-power-case/
Federal court grants Trump administration delay in clean power case  Federal court grants Trump administration delay in clean power case Environmental officials now oppose the Obama administration's initiative to clean the air. The delay by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit gives them 60 days to work on alternatives. Federal court grants Trump administration delay in clean power case  Environmental officials now oppose the Obama administration's initiative to clean the air. The delay by the U. S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit gives them 60 days to work on alternatives.  Federal court grants Trump administration delay in clean power case Richard Wolf  A federal appeals court on Friday delayed action on the Obama administration's major limits on power plant emissions at the request of the Trump administration.( Photo: Jim Cole, AP)  —  The Obama administration's most ambitious environmental initiatives took a procedural hit in court Friday as the Trump administration fights to undo them. The U. S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit put two clean air cases on hold for 60 days at the new administration's request, giving the Environmental Protection Agency more time to devise alternative plans favorable to coal-producing states and industries. The original plans would set new standards for existing as well as new or modified power plants. The move by the nation's second-most powerful court, now dominated by Democratic appointees, represented an acknowledgment that the government's position has changed. It asked both sides to weigh in by May 15 on whether the matter should be sent back to the EPA, which would end the cases.“ The court recognized the landscape has changed and that a decision on the merits is not appropriate at this time," said West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, a leader among the many opponents of Obama's plan. “ We appreciate the Trump administration's willingness to review the devastating impact of the so-called Clean Power Plan, and further appreciate the court giving due time to hear the new administration's take on this unlawful regulation." The Clean Power Plan is a cornerstone of Obama's climate change initiative, now incorporated into the United Nations climate agreement.  It aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants 32% from 2005 levels over the next 15 years by requiring some coal-fired plants to shut down or invest in natural gas, wind or solar power. Opponents say the reductions are not achievable and will cost thousands of jobs. So important is the initiative that the entire appeals court devoted seven hours last September to hearing from 16 lawyers involved in the case, rather than send it to a three-judge panel. The court's decision has been widely anticipated for months. The appeals court refused to block the Clean Power Plan in January 2016 while states and industry coalitions were mounting their appeal. But the Supreme Court issued a stay in one of Justice Antonin Scalia's last rulings before his death the following month. The other rules for new or modified power plants remain in effect for now. Consumer and environmental groups decried the delay approved Friday. “ This decision clears the way for the White House to dismantle the Clean Power Plan, a move that will cost consumers more in the long run, in the form of higher energy and health care bills," said Shannon Baker- Branstetter, policy counsel for Consumers Union." We are in a race against time to address the climate crisis," said Vickie Patton, general counsel at the Environmental Defense Fund. " Climate progress and clean energy cannot be stopped by the litigation tactics of polluters." Read more: Trump executive order could rescind national monuments President Trump 's executive order could lead to more offshore drilling
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302298376/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Social-media-users-cared-most-about-Barron-Trump-travel-ban-in-Trumps-first-days/
Social media users cared most about Barron Trump , travel ban in Trump 's first 100 days  Social media users cared most about Barron Trump , travel ban in Trump 's first 100 days Donald Trump 's presidency has captivated social medi Since President Trump took office, two topics caught the interest of social media users: Barron Trump 's right to privacy and the temporary travel ban on people from certain Muslim-majority countries Social media users cared most about Barron Trump , travel ban in Trump 's first 100 days  Donald Trump 's presidency has captivated social medi Since President Trump took office, two topics caught the interest of social media users: Barron Trump 's right to privacy and the temporary travel ban on people from certain Muslim-majority countries  Social media users cared most about Barron Trump , travel ban in Trump 's first 100 days Jessica Estepa  First lady Melania Trump and son Barron Trump attend the annual Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, D. C., on April 17, 2017. ( Photo: Olivier Douliery, SIPA Pool/epa) Donald Trump 's unconventional presidency has enthralled social media users, who are obsessed with following his every move. But the two most captivating topics on social media since President Trump took office were Barron Trump 's right to privacy and the temporary travel ban on people from certain Muslim-majority countries. That's according to Social Flow, a publishing optimization platform used by more than 300 major brands. According to their algorithm, which analyzed content for the most shared, commented and clicked stories about Trump since his inauguration January 20, stories about the youngest Trump son and the ban were the most popular on social media. Despite the tension across the political spectrum, social users seemed to rally around the idea that children shouldn't be targets of political fights, said Frank Speiser, co-founder of Social Flow. That chatter lit up the Internet." This happened with Sasha and Malia ( Obama) too," Speiser said. " Both sides of the aisle are inclined to say that you have to leave the kids out of it." More surprising to Speiser was the impact of stories about the Trump administration's ongoing attempts to put a temporary travel ban in place. The most shared story was about the federal judge who reversed the first iteration of the ban in February – which was shared more than 116,000 times. Given the attention that the media has paid to issues such as the U. S.- Mexico border wall, health care and Russia, Speiser had expected those stories to do better among social users. But they didn't." There have been a lot of stories about Russia and Trump , and those stories aren't getting engagement," Speiser said. " I actually went through the queries because I thought, ' That can't be.'" Another issue that Speiser said social users don't care about: the president's tax returns." Normally, we use tax returns as a proxy for trust. [ People want to know:]  Can I trust this politician?" Speiser said. " With Trump , it doesn't matter. You're already either for or against him." Other highlights from Social Flow's data: People have spent 3,152.7 years reading about Trump ( Social Flow uses an algorithm that assigns a number of seconds to each social media impression)147 of those years happened on Inauguration Day Satire pieces about Trump does well among social users, in both shares and engagement There were 674,000 posts about Trump since he took office, which is about the same as the number of posts in the last 100 days of Trump 's presidential campaig
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302255964/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-to-NRA-The-assault-on-gun-rights-is-over/
 Trump to NRA: The 'assault' on gun rights is over  Trump to NRA: The 'assault' on gun rights is over Trump is only the second president to address the National Rifle Association convention. Trump to NRA: The 'assault' on gun rights is over  Trump to NRA: The 'assault' on gun rights is over David Jackson  Published 3:26 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 7:18 p.m. ET April 28, 2017   Ninety-nine days into office President Donald Trump jets into Atlanta, Georgia, to address the National Rifle Association, earning a triumphant welcome from the hugely powerful US gun lobby.  Newslook President Trump addresses the National Rifle Association.( Photo: JIM WATSON, AFP/ Getty Images)  ATLANTA –   President Trump spent the eve of his 100th day in office with some of his most fervent supporters, talking about two of his favorite topics: Gun rights and his surprise win of the November election." The eight-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end," Trump told the annual National Rifle Association convention, part of a drumbeat of events designed to herald his 100th day in office on Saturday. " You have a true friend and champion in the White House." The thousands of NRA members who gathered in a concrete convention hall in downtown Atlanta are the kinds of people who remain committed to Trump , despite the political travails and low national approval ratings of his early months in office – and they in no way regret their choice of a president they helped elect." So far,  I think he's done better than he's been given credit for in the media," said Kathleen Mahn, 45, a stay-at-home mom and fitness instructor in Peachtree City, Ga., after cheering Trump 's remarks. Playing to the political interests of the NRA crowd, Trump outlined a series of actions he's taken that he said were designed to protect gun rights, such as nominating Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch and Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Only the second president to address the NRA convention – the first was Ronald Reagan in 1983 – Trump  barely mentioned the impending 100 day mark, a traditional yardstick to measure the accomplishments of presidents early days in office. But he made sure to defend his record during his first three-and-a-half months, from taking action to improve the Department of Veterans Affairs to cracking down on illegal immigration. Thanking gun owners for their support and get-out-the-vote efforts, Trump also spoke warmly of  Election Day – "wasn't that a great evening?" he said at one point – and hit frequent campaign themes, touting his " America First" trade policy and the slogan " Make America Great Again" that adorned the hats of many supporters. Trump also mocked the large group of Democrats who are already exploring possible presidential runs against Trump in three years, taking a special shot at the Native American heritage of Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D- Mass. " It may be Pocahontas,  remember that," Trump said of his potential re-election opponent. " And she is not big for the NRA, that I can tell you." While a series of national polls give Trump record-low approval ratings for a new president, they also reveal strong and continuing support among Republicans. A recent  ABC News/ Washington Post survey gave Trump an overall approval rating of only 42%, but also said that 96% of the people who voted for him last November still back him. The poll also Trump would win a hypothetical re-match with Democrat Hillary Clinton, 43% to 40%. That support among conservatives was evident as volunteers and vendors set up booths – "15 Acres of Guns & Gear," the signs say – throughout the Georgia World Congress Center ahead of Friday's  NRA meeting. " The gun owners are middle America," said Ron Sasaki, 49, a police officer from western Washington state and member of a group called American Snipers.org. " We relate to him more, and he relates to us more, than regular politicians." NRA members who watched Trump praised him not only over gun rights, but for other efforts like his tax cut plan and his promise to build a wall along the U. S.- Mexican border. They also dismissed critics of these and other Trump plans." The minute anything comes out of his mouth, they're going to oppose it," said Don Spruill, 75, a retired marketer for Coca- Cola who lives in Marietta, Ga., of Trump 's opponents. Wife Judy Spruill echoed other NRA members in her disdain for Washington politicians, and the fact that Trump doesn't resemble them." He is so politically incorrect," she said. " We love that; at least I do." For their part, NRA officials also defended Trump 's 100-day progress and denounced his critics. Chris Cox, executive director of the NRA's lobbying arm, told members ahead of Trump 's speech they were the ones who helped get him elected, telling them "we didn't just swing an election, we altered the course of history." Wayne La Pierre, executive vice president of the NRA, said gun owners must beat back "leftist zealots" who are determined to "destroy President Trump ." Meanwhile, lawmakers are throwing cold water on the idea that Trump 's early days in office have been successful. They denounced his failed efforts to replace President Obama's health care bill, and executive orders designed to de-regulate Wall Street financial firms and coal and mining companies. They also insist that Trump 's pro- NRA agenda, including his opposition to expanding background checks, leads to the proliferation of guns and violence in the U. S. “ President Trump in his first 100 days has had more false starts, failed policies and bad ideas than most presidents have in an entire term," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D- Calif. After the NRA speech,  Trump attended a fundraiser for Republican congressional candidate Karen Handel, who is seeking the suburban Atlanta U. S. House seat vacated by current Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Press. The race that's been closer than expected will be an early test of the " Trump effect" ahead of next year's congressional elections nationwide. Trump sought to rally NRA members ahead of the vote, saying that Handel is "totally for the NRA and she's totally for the Second Amendment, so get out and vote." Before Trump 's speech, one of the signs that flashed on a video board in the hall said that "even after the election, the anti-gun left still has us in their cross-hairs." Trump played up those kinds of concerns, claiming that some people want "to abolish the Second Amendment," even though no serious lawmaker has made such a proposal." I greatly appreciated your support on November 8th in what will hopefully be one of the most important and positive elections for the United States of all time," said Trump , who is preparing to mark his 100th day with a Saturday night rally in Harrisburg, Pa., one of the key states behind his Electoral College victory." And to the NRA, I can proudly say, I will never, ever let you down."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302192552/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Republicans-miss-day-target-but-still-feel-pressure-to-get-Obamacare-repeal-done/
Republicans miss 100-day target but still feel pressure to get Obamacare repeal done  Republicans miss 100-day target but still feel pressure to get Obamacare repeal done House Republicans will not vote to repeal and replace Obamacare within the first 100 days of President Trump ’s administration, but what exactly that means for future timing of a vote remains unclear. Republicans miss 100-day target but still feel pressure to get Obamacare repeal done  House Republicans will not vote to repeal and replace Obamacare within the first 100 days of President Trump ’s administration, but what exactly that means for future timing of a vote remains unclear.  Republicans miss 100-day target but still feel pressure to get Obamacare repeal done Eliza Collins  Published 2:02 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 3:24 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows, R- N. C., is pictured on March 28, 2017, on Capitol Hill.( Photo: J. Scott Applewhite, AP)  — House Republicans will not vote to repeal and replace Obamacare within the first 100 days of President Trump ’s administration, but what exactly that means for future timing of a vote remains unclear. Late Thursday night, House Republican leaders announced they did not have the 216 votes needed to bring legislation to a vote, despite a new amendment that brought on support of a significant number of conservatives earlier this week. The amendment was negotiated by Rep. Tom Mac Arthur, a New Jersey Republican who co-chairs the moderate Tuesday Group, and Rep. Mark Meadows, R- N. C., who chairs the conservative Freedom Caucus. With the change, states can apply for waivers that would allow them to opt out of insurance mandates created by the Affordable Care Act. The amendment brought on at least 80% of the roughly three-dozen members of the Freedom Caucus, whose members had helped kill an earlier effort to bring to the floor a repeal bill they thought did not go far enough. Read more: Moderate Republicans facing pressure to get in line on Obamacare repeal Freedom Caucus backs Obamacare repeal bill with new changes Trump 's 5 biggest wins and losses in Congress in his first 100 days But the changes also pushed away some moderates who, among other things, are concerned about a lack of cost protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Both Mac Arthur and Meadows insisted that just because there wouldn’t be a vote on health care before Saturday — which will be Trump ’s 100th day in office — that does not mean there is no urgency to bring the bill to the floor as soon as possible.“ I’m still talking to members, whipping members today,” Meadows said. “ Even though we’ve heard from leadership that there’s not going to be a vote today, I’m still working as if there is. And so, I think there still is the pressure to make sure that we have enough votes to pass it.”“ This is our moment. If we fail now, that law becomes permanent,” Mac Arthur said about the Affordable Care Act, adding he’d be open to changes to his amendment if it brought more people on board. Rep. Tom Mac Arthur arrives at the office of Speaker Paul Ryan at the U. S. Capitol on March 23, 2017. ( Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images) At least 15 members are solid “no's" on the health care bill, and another handful are “leaning no” or undecided. Some members, such as Rep. Mario Diaz- Balart, R- Fla., were a "yes" on the previous legislation but are now back to undecided after the Mac Arthur amendment was added. Republicans can lose only about 20 votes before the legislation fails because no Democrats are expected to vote for it. Rep. Chris Collins, R- N. Y., a moderate member of the Tuesday Group who backs the bill and is close to the president, dismissed the 100-day deadline as something made-up by the press.“ There was never any 100-day pressure,” Collins said. “ Because the press is focused on 100 days, of course the president is as well, but it’s an artificial number.”“ I think we’re taking our time, you know, the Mac Arthur amendment has got to be explained in more detail to some of the moderates who don’t fully see how the waiver program might work, how it’s not as onerous or draconian as they may think,” he continued. The White House had been pushing for a vote to repeal and replace Obamacare — one of Trump ’s campaign promises — before Saturday. In an interview with Fox News, which will air Friday night, Trump said he was "disappointed" with the way Republicans had handled some key policy issues, including health care.“ I’m disappointed that it doesn’t go quicker. I like them a lot," Trump said. " I’ll tell you Paul Ryan’s trying very, very hard. I think everybody is trying very hard. It is a very tough system.” House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., has consistently tried to tamp down expectations that there would be a vote before Trump ’s 100-day mark or even that one was on the horizon.“ We will go when we have the votes,” Ryan told reporters earlier Thursday.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302145988/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Imagine-the-world-through-President-Trumps-eyes-%e2%80%94-yearbook-style/
Imagine the world through President Trump 's eyes — yearbook style  Imagine the world through President Trump 's eyes — yearbook style High school never ends? That's the idea behind  IJR's annual project, The Labrador, a "yearbook" that pokes fun at the White House and the reporters who cover it. Imagine the world through President Trump 's eyes — yearbook style  High school never ends? That's the idea behind  IJR's annual project, The Labrador, a "yearbook" that pokes fun at the White House and the reporters who cover it. Imagine the world through President Trump 's eyes — yearbook style Jessica Estepa  Published 1:06 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 1:46 p.m. ET April 28, 2017 The first page of the 2017 edition of The Labrador ( Photo: IJR) High school never ends? That's the idea behind  IJR's annual project, The Labrador, a "yearbook" that pokes fun at the White House and the reporters who cover it. In the project's second year, the IJR staff and comedian Dave Jorgenson tried a different approach: What if the yearbook was owned by President Trump ? The result is a book filled with "commentary" that does sound like the president." Low energy," reads a note next to a reference to Jeb Bush, one of Trump 's many rivals in the 2016 GOP primary). Note about Jeb Bush in The Labrador ( Photo: IJR) Flip through the pages to the " Senior Class" of White House correspondents, and you'll see drawings on the reporters and notes to some of their names. " Failing" is added next to Maggie Haberman's outlet, the New York Times, the president's favorite adjective for the publication.e Note about the New York Times in The Labrador ( Photo: IJR) A few pages later, in the " Upper Classmen" section, a star is drawn around a photo of Sean Hannity. Note on Sean Hannity in The Labrador ( Photo: IJR) And in advice for the "incoming freshmen," a final point is added at the bottom of the list: " Be nice to President Trump ." Advice in The Labrador ( Photo: IJR) The IJR yearbook comes as part of the kickoff for a weekend of events surrounding the annual dinner for  White House correspondents, including IJR's own Golden Age of Journalism pre-party on Thursday night.  With heightened tensions between the Trump administration and the press — including Trump announcing he would not attend the dinner, and White House staff saying they wouldn't go in "solidarity" with the president — the weekend has been toned down from the celebrity-laden lavishness of recent years. Eric Kuhn of Layer3 TV, which hosted the Bytes and Bylines opening party on Thursday, said that allowed the weekend to focus on journalism, something his event, which brings journalists and people from the tech industry together, has always strived to do." The ability to make this event about journalists and the future of journalism as journalism keeps on changing, the ability to allow all these journalists to interact with all these techies is really fun for us, and hopefully innovation will come out of that," he said.  Recycling is in trouble — and it might be your fault Trump backtracks: U. S. will not withdraw from NAFTAWatch: President Trump delivers keynote speech at NRA convention In Gettysburg speech, Trump made 100 days of promises. Did he keep them? EPA removes climate change data, other scientific information from website VA whistle-blowers leery of Trump order creating office to protect them
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302113632/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Supreme-Courts-newest-justice-sticks-to-plain-language/
Supreme Court's newest justice sticks to 'plain language'  Supreme Court's newest justice sticks to 'plain language' As advertised, Neil Gorsuch shows that he opposes judicial activism by his questions and comments during his first two weeks of oral arguments. He hones in on the letter of the law and common word definitions. Supreme Court's newest justice sticks to 'plain language'  As advertised, Neil Gorsuch shows that he opposes judicial activism by his questions and comments during his first two weeks of oral arguments. He hones in on the letter of the law and common word definitions.  Supreme Court's newest justice sticks to 'plain language' Richard Wolf  Newly confirmed Justice Neil Gorsuch has been a stickler for the Constitution, laws and precedents during his brief stint on the Supreme Court.( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP)  —  If two weeks can offer a window into what might be three or four decades on the Supreme Court, Justice Neil Gorsuch comes as advertised. Heralded by President Trump and conservative backers as a jurist who opposes judicial activism, Gorsuch showed during oral arguments in 13 cases that he sticks to the letter of the law. From his first day on the bench, when he complained about lawyers and judges making up statutory provisions, to his most recent, when he bemoaned "linguistic somersaults," the 49-year-old Coloradan framed each debate by the laws and precedents involved." I would have thought cases of discrimination under federal discrimination statutes are cases of discrimination under federal discrimination statutes, and not civil service disputes," Gorsuch said, seeking to parse differences that have become ambiguous over time. Later, to drive home his belief that laws written by Congress should be taken literally, not interpreted broadly, he said, "'subject to' can also mean subject to." Gorsuch's presence on the court has reinstated the conservative majority lost when Justice Antonin Scalia died in February 2016 . In his first weeks on the court, it was he, more than Chief Justice John Roberts and  Justices Anthony Kennedy, Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas, who most often emphasized the importance of written texts and constitutional principles. Leonard Leo, executive vice president of the conservative Federalist Society, which helped to create the list of 21 potential nominees from which Trump chose Gorsuch, said the former federal appeals court judge has shown he is "someone who adheres to the text of laws because of a deep hesitation to extend the judicial power to choices that are best left to politicians and the people." While two weeks aren't enough to form a judgment, liberal court-watchers are far more wary. Elizabeth Wydra, president of the Constitutional Accountability Center, says Gorsuch comes to the court as a "selective originalist — giving pride of place to certain parts of the Constitution, while giving an extremely crabbed view of the substantive fundamental rights protected, in particular, by the Constitution's later amendments, including the 14th Amendment and its broad guarantee of equality for all." Read more: Neil Gorsuch sworn in as 113th Supreme Court justice Gorsuch confirmation to have major impact on all three branches of government For Neil Gorsuch, Supreme Court job may seem subordinate The past two-week period was the most robust sitting of the court's term, forcing Gorsuch to get up to speed on a wide range of constitutional and statutory cases just a week after being sworn in. At the same time, the court was at the center of Arkansas's effort to execute eight convicted murderers over 11 days, ultimately green-lighting four lethal injections and blocking one (three others were blocked by lower courts). At one point, Gorsuch sided with the court's conservative justices in refusing to delay several executions while considering procedural challenges. Church/state case The biggest case he heard was a Lutheran church's challenge to its exclusion from a Missouri program that awarded grants for playground improvements to non-profit groups on a competitive basis. Although the church placed fifth and 14 grants were awarded, state officials said Missouri's constitution forbids giving public funds to religious institutions. The church sued on the basis of the U. S. Constitution's free exercise clause, contained in the First Amendment, and the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. The state said it could exclude the church in part because the program was selective, rather than open to all comers. But Gorsuch couldn't find that distinction in the Constitution." How is it that discrimination on the basis of religious exercise is better in selective government programs than general programs?" Gorsuch asked. " How do we draw the line between selective and general? One could seem to play with that line forever." Like many of his colleagues, Gorsuch also exhibited a distrust of the federal government. In a case involving the Securities and  Exchange Commission's penalties against an investment fund manager for misappropriating investors' funds, he asked where that authority came from." There's no statute governing it. We're just making it up," Gorsuch said, repeating a favorite phrase from the day before. Twice in two weeks, the new justice's devotion to texts and definitions appeared to rub up against his predecessor as junior justice, Elena Kagan. In the first example, Gorsuch contended that decades of court decisions permitting federal district courts to handle combined discrimination and civil service challenges did not have a sound legal basis.  Kagan said that to ignore those rulings "would be a kind of revolution —  I mean, to the extent that you can have a revolution in this kind of case." In the second example, Gorsuch suggested a Supreme Court ruling in 1985 that defendants have a right to an independent mental health expert should be understood to include one appointed by the court, since defense lawyers originally asked for either. That would confine the justices' discretion to the specific "question presented."" That would be quite something," Kagan said. " I think that that would be a shocking way to interpret this court's opinions."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/302058718/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Congress-passes-shortterm-funding-bill-to-avoid-government-shutdown/
Congress passes short-term funding bill to avoid government shutdown  Congress passes short-term funding bill to avoid government shutdown With just hours left until a government shutdown at midnight, the House passed a stopgap funding bill Friday that will keep the government open for another week. Congress passes short-term funding bill to avoid government shutdown  With just hours left until a government shutdown at midnight, the House passed a stopgap funding bill Friday that will keep the government open for another week.  Congress passes short-term funding bill to avoid government shutdown Erin Kelly  Published 11:31 a.m. ET April 28, 2017 | Updated 1:34 p.m. ET April 28, 2017   Both House and Senate approve a short-term spending bill that keeps government open for at least another week. ( April 28)  — With just hours left until a government shutdown at midnight, Congress passed a stopgap funding bill Friday that will keep the government open for another week. House members voted 382-30 to approve the legislation, which gives lawmakers until midnight on May 5 to try to reach a compromise on legislation to fund the government through the rest of fiscal year 2017, which ends Sept. 30. The Senate approved the weeklong funding bill by voice vote Friday, and President Trump has said he will sign it into law." The fact that we are here again at the last minute just trying to keep the government open is sad," said Rep. Jim Mc Govern, D- Mass. " Once again, we have a manufactured crisis at the edge of a cliff." Congressional leaders and the White House wanted to prevent an unpopular shutdown, which would have closed national parks and monuments, delayed tax refunds and furloughed thousands of federal workers. The shutdown would have taken effect Saturday — Trump 's 100th day in office — unless Congress acted. Read more: Trump says Democrats want shutdown, but party leaders say it won't happen Trump 's 5 biggest wins and losses in Congress in his first 100 days Obamacare subsidies are sticking point in talks to avert government shutdown Government shutdown less likely now that Trump has relented on border wall" Today's measure shows the American people that we are making a good faith effort to keep our government open." said House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions, R- Texas. " While this is not ideal, I support this effort to provide our colleagues with more time to reach a final agreement on legislation to fund the government through the fiscal year." Democrats decided to support the stopgap measure after it became clear that House Republicans would not force a vote this week on a new version of their bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, D- Md., and other Democrats said they would vote against the weeklong bill to fund the government if GOP leaders went ahead with a health care vote. Hoyer said he feared that Republicans were trying to push the bill through to give Trump a big victory for his first 100 days. However, Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., said he would not bring the health care legislation to the floor until he is sure he has the votes to pass it. Many moderate Republicans expressed concern this week about the latest version of the bill. Federal programs would continue to be funded at existing levels under the stopgap measure approved by Congress. The resolution would also extend health care benefits for retired union coal miners through May 5. There is bipartisan support for making those benefits permanent. The government has been operating on a temporary spending bill that Congress passed in December to fund agencies through April 28. Lawmakers will return to work Monday with just five days to reach a deal or face another possible shutdown. Two major stumbling blocks to a compromise were largely resolved this week. On Tuesday,  Trump  backed off his demand for immediate funding for a Southwest border wall, deciding to fight for money in the 2018 budget instead. Democrats had warned that the issue would result in a shutdown because of their fierce opposition to the wall. Some border-state Republicans also oppose the barrier, calling it expensive and ineffective. The Department of Homeland Security has estimated that the wall will cost nearly $22 billion, but Democrats have said the price tag could be as high as $70 billion. On Wednesday, the White House backed off its threat to stop paying federal subsidies that help low-income Americans pay for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. Democrats want language in the final bill to ensure that subsidies owed to health insurance companies under Obamacare are paid so that insurance premiums don't increase for low-income families by 15% or more. Trump had threatened to withhold the payments to force Democrats to bargain on a health care bill to replace the ACA, but White House officials said Wednesday that those payments will continue. However, other sticking points remain. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- Calif., said there are still disagreements over a rule that requires financial advisers to act in the best interests of clients saving for retirement. Democrats want to protect the rule in the funding bill but Republicans want to scrap it, saying it is confusing and burdensome. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- Calif., speaks to reporters during a news conference on Capitol Hill on April 27, 2017. ( Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP) Democrats also are seeking health care funding for Puerto Rico, which is expected to run out of Medicaid money this year, resulting in nearly 1 million residents losing their medical coverage. Trump has denounced Democrats' efforts as a taxpayer "bailout" of Puerto Rico. The U. S. territory receives less than half the Medicaid funding that states receive. Rep. Tom Cole, R- Okla., who serves on the House Appropriations Committee, said he believes Republicans and Democrats can reach a bipartisan deal next week to fund the government through September. House leaders have said they intend to introduce a funding bill Monday night, setting up a vote on Thursday." I'm confident we'll be back here with a bill the American people can be proud of," Cole said. Despite his concessions, Trump is expected to win support for increased defense spending and border security that does not include the wall. Trump sent Congress an emergency request for $33 billion in the 2017 bill that included $30 billion in extra spending for defense and combat operations and $3 billion for border security, including the wall. Congress is likely to give the president more than $15 million in additional defense spending and some extra money for border security.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/246615640/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Pomp-and-protests-Inaugurating-a-president-and-his-movement/
Pomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement Pomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement Boris Epshteyn promises Jan. 20 events to demonstrate a "new wave" has arrived in D. C. Pomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement Pomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement Susan Page  Published 9:29 a.m. ET Dec. 20, 2016 | Updated 9:24 a.m. ET Dec. 21, 2016   Boris Epshteyn, 34, a Republican activist from New Jersey who became one of Donald Trump ’s most vigorous defenders on cable TV during the campaign discusses plans for the Jan. 20 inauguration festivities.  USA TODAY Boris Epshteyn is heading up communication for the inaugural committee.( Photo: David Baratz, USA TODAY ) CONNECTTWEETLINKEDIN Trump Tower, it’s not. The Presidential Inaugural Committee works out of a nondescript General Services Administration building in southwest Washington, D. C. The bare-bones offices are decorated with hand-cut snowflakes and a few random strings of Christmas lights. Boris Epshteyn, 34, a Republican activist from New Jersey who became one of Donald Trump ’s most vigorous defenders on cable TV during the campaign, is now communications director for the operation planning for the Jan. 20 festivities. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity. Q: A big Inauguration Day on Jan. 20 — and an unprecedented number of protesters expected. Are you concerned? Epshteyn: Americans have First Amendment rights and we are very honored that people will come to celebrate this inauguration, and we understand that some will come and protest, and that’s fully within their rights as long as they do it peacefully, and within all applicable laws, rules and regulations. Q: What’s the message President-elect Trump wants to convey on that day? Epshteyn: It’s all about unity. It’s about the country coming together, being one America, America uniting, and him being the president for all Americans. That’s really the key message. Q: There’s been criticism that during the transition he hasn’t done enough to reach out to those who didn’t support him. Epshteyn: He’s been very clear that he’s president of all Americans, not just those who supported him, but all Americans and he wants all people to not give up their dreams, not to downsize their dreams, and that goes for all Americans. Read more: USA TODAY Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers USA TODAY Presidential Inauguration 2017 Q: He’s reduced the number of inaugural balls, from the 10 that President Obama had to three. Why? Epshteyn: This is not a coronation. It’s an inauguration. It’s a day to work and a day to get to work. And the president-elect, the incoming president, is someone who’s eager to get to work, who’s eager to make sure Americans are safe, to make sure Americans are employed. Q: There have been reports you’ve had trouble lining up A-list celebrities. True? Epshteyn: Absolutely not. We’ve had celebrities from all over the world reaching out, wanting to perform. But this inauguration is of the people; it’s by the people; it’s for the people. It’s not about celebrities; it’s not about entertainers. ... The election was really a celebration of the Trump movement. And this day, in addition to celebrating the transfer of power, of course brings in the fact that the Trump movement is now coming into power to D. C. in full force. Starting at noon on Jan. 20, Donald Trump will be representing the Trump movement. And what is that? That’s bucking the establishment again, right? That’s going against the special interests, going against the way that things have been a long time in a negative way and bringing in that new, fresh wave. Q: President Jackson threw the doors of the White House open. Epshteyn: You will definitely see throughout the week specific parts of events, specific representations of the movement and of the openness to the American people of Washington, D. C. Washington, D. C., the special interests — the swamp, as we called it during the campaign — has been closed off from the American people, removed from the American people in a big way, and that’s going to change starting on Jan. 20. Q: For example? Epshteyn: There’s going to be the welcoming event on Jan. 19. As part of that event you could see something that very much again transcends what Washington, D. C., has been and represents. ... It’s not just a party. It’s a commemoration, a commemoration of the transfer of power but again also of the fact that we are ringing in this new presidency and it’s the Trump presidency, very different from any we’ve seen in the past and very much different from the one we could have seen with Hillary Clinton, if she had won. Workers build portions of the inaugural platform for President-elect Donald Trump at the Capitol on Dec. 8, 2016 . ( Photo: Saul Loeb, AFP/ Getty Images) Q: You were one of Trump ’s most loyal surrogates during the campaign. You accused Hillary Clinton of using a Gold Star family as a prop; you defended Trump after the Access Hollywood tape was released. Did you ever have a point when you thought, ‘ I can’t defend him anymore’? Epshteyn: Absolutely not.  Absolutely not. Because I always firmly believed that it was binary choice between Hillary Clinton and the leader of Donald Trump , who was effective, who was pragmatic, who was smart and who truly leads. And I always believed that he was the right person for this job and nothing made me waver from that, especially not some of these gimmicks that some of the left tried to throw at him. Q: You were born in the Soviet Union; your family immigrated to the United States when you were 11. When New Jersey Sen. Frank Lautenberg died in 2013, you thanked him for pushing the law that let your family in. Epshteyn: We were Jewish refugees and we came to this country in the early '90s and Frank Lautenberg was part of this legislation, the Lautenberg Amendment, that allowed for Russian Jews to come to the United States and to go through the specific processes, to follow the laws, rules and regulations. We were refugees. We had a white card, then a green card, and then we studied for the (citizenship) test. My folks took the test and we became citizens — so proud to follow the law and to be citizens of this beautiful country. Q: How does that affect you when you see refugees today in Syria and elsewhere? Epshteyn: My heart breaks. My heart breaks for the folks, for the people in Syria, the people in Aleppo. It’s an absolutely terrible situation. And I really hope, as Donald Trump said throughout the campaign, that we have safe zones in Syria and have a way for those folks in Syria to be protected and to be safe. Q: Do you wish the United States did more for refugees, took in more refugees? Epshteyn: I think we do a lot. I think the United States does a ton for folks around the world — folks like ourselves, again, who follow the processes that are laid out. It took us a long time. It took us a long time to apply to be able to come, and then once we came it took a long time to be citizens. ... I work hard every single day to do everything I can to not just make my family proud but to make this country proud and thankful that they welcomed us with open arms. Stay with USA TODAY for full coverage of the 2017 inauguration. President-elect Donald Trump : A look at his career and 2016 campaign
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/239007874/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Exclusive-Tony-Blair-sees-dangerous-times-ahead-for-Western-democracies/
Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies  Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies The former British prime minister on political challenges fueled by anger and social media. Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies Susan Page  Former U. K. Prime Minister Tony Blair speaks with USA TODAY Washington bureau chief Susan Page about the current political climate of many Western democracies.  Video by Jasper Colt, USA TODAY Former British prime minister Tony Blair( Photo: David Baratz, USA TODAY )  LINKEDIN — Former British prime minister Tony Blair warns that political upheaval from Great Britain's Brexit vote in June to the collapse of the Italian government on Sunday signals the most dangerous time for Western democracies in decades." It does feel perilous, actually, because I think there are decisions that are being taken of vast moment in circumstances where systems are fragile," he told Capital Download on Monday. " And that is troubling." It has been a year of unexpected victories by populist and nationalistic forces that are challenging the establishment: passage of the referendum pulling Britain from the European Union, the election of Donald Trump as president in the United States, defeat of a measure in Italy that prompted the prime minister to announce his resignation. USA TODAY Italian vote, Renzi resignation confuses global markets And in the Austrian election Sunday, the candidate representing the party founded by former Nazis lost — but after commanding 46% of the vote. Blair, who was in Washington to address a conference sponsored by the bipartisan group No Labels, announced last week the launch of a new organization that will try to help build a more muscular policy agenda for centrists and encourage networking among them across Europe, in the United States and elsewhere. Given the rise of extreme voices on the left and right, he said, " I'm not sure we're asking the right questions right now, never mind giving the right answers." Of particular concern to him is a "longing" for an authoritarian leader." It's amazing how many people you will find who will reference a style of leadership of ( Russian) President Putin in a positive way," he told USA TODAY 's weekly video newsmaker series. " I think people want their country moving and they think that if the present system is not moving it, and not making the changes that they want to see, then maybe someone who just says, ' I don't care what anyone thinks; I'm just going to go for it, and this is what I'm going to do' — that has a certain attraction." If the center isn't a place of strength and vitality, and it looks kind of flabby and just managing the status quo, then you're at risk of someone coming along and doing that." USA TODAY Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers In his speech to the No Labels conference, he faulted some centrist political leaders for failing to do enough to improve the economic prospects for workers disrupted by globalization and to ensure a sense of personal safety at a time, for instance, that Great Britain and other European countries have absorbed a wave of immigrants from Syria. " People will only put aside prejudices if they think there are rules," he said. Blair sees a common thread from Brexit's passage to Trump 's election to support for Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, a provocative figure whose anti-drug campaign is blamed for thousands of deaths. Tony Blair speaks at a No Labels event in Washington on Dec. 5, 2016 . ( Photo: Paul Morigi, AP Images for No Labels)" There is immense amount of anger at established ways of doing things," Blair said. " There is, I think, a whole group of people who feel ignored by those in power, that is for sure true. There is more anger around in politics than for a long time." While issues such as immigration aren't new, there is "much greater skepticism towards globalization and the benefits of it." What's more, "social media is a revolutionary phenomenon," he went on. " It changes the way politics works. It changes the way the media works. If we're not careful, it locks people into conversations with people who just agree with them, and who then have a general conspiracy-theory view of the rest of the world." Blair has never met Trump and didn't criticize him. Asked about whether it was wise for Trump to accept a congratulatory telephone call from the president of Taiwan — the sort of conversation every American president since 1979 deliberately has avoided — Blair demurred. " I'm not going to get into your politics," he began. " To be honest, in the end, I'll tell you what I really think: Let's see how it works out." USA TODAY Trump talks to Taiwan's leader, breaking precedent" I'm less worried about America than I am about Europe; I'll be very frank with you," he said. " America is such a strong country and you've got so many checks-and-balances and you've got such resilience in your economy and so on; you guys will do fine, I'm sure. In Europe, we have systems that are at a point of fragility that troubles me." Blair was just 54 years old when he moved out of 10 Downing Street after serving as prime minister from 1997 to 2007. His political appeal for a "new way" was akin to President Bill Clinton's "third way" for Democrats here, and he was a crucial ally for President George W. Bush during the Iraq War. Now he offers a bit of free advice for President Obama, who will move out the White House next month at age 55: Find a cause." When you've got young political leaders and then they leave office young, you've got to find something that really motivates you," he said. " The reason I spent so much time on the Middle East is that I'm deeply motivated by it. But you've got to find something that gets you up in the morning with the same sense of purpose and excitement as happened when you were prime minister or president." Capital Download with former British prime minister Tony Blair and USA TODAY 's Susan Page. ( Photo: David Baratz, USA TODAY )
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/235727824/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Gingrich-calls-Trump-tweet-about-vote-fraud-a-big-mistake/
Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake   Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake The former speaker says a potentially transformative president shouldn't have sent that tweet Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake Susan Page 50th Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich discusses Trump 's possible appointment of Mitt Romney as Secretary of State with USA TODAY Washington bureau chief Susan Page.  USA TODAY Former House speaker Newt Gingrich on USA TODAY 's Capital Download( Photo: Sean Dougherty, USAT) CONNECTTWEET  LINKEDIN — Former House speaker Newt Gingrich calls Donald Trump a potentially transformative president. But he shouldn't have sent out that tweet alleging election fraud. In an interview Tuesday with Capital Download, Gingrich, a free-wheeling Trump adviser who is a vice-chairman of his transition team, described the president-elect as a leader who is poised to disrupt the regular order in a way no commander in chief has done since Andrew Jackson in the 19th century. But he also said that Trump 's biggest misstep in the three weeks since he won the White House was to post on Twitter Sunday a complaint asserting widespread voter fraud, and in an election he won. " In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide," Trump wrote, " I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."" The president of the United States can't randomly tweet without having somebody check it out," Gingrich told USA TODAY 's weekly video newsmaker series. " It makes you wonder about whatever else he's doing. It undermines much more than a single tweet." USA TODAY Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers Does he see any evidence of millions of illegal votes?" No," Gingrich says. The former House speaker, who led a political disruption of his own when Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in 1994, says the best thing Trump has done so far is to name campaign chairman Steve Bannon and Republican national chairman Reince Priebus to his top White House staff. " You have a very hard-line conservative warrior as your chief strategist and you have a really sophisticated manager of the establishment as your chief of staff," he says. That said, Gingrich is caustic toward another potential Trump appointment, of Mitt Romney, the GOP's 2012 presidential nominee. Trump and Romney were slated to meet Tuesday for a second time, reportedly to discuss the role of secretary of State for the GOP's 2012 nominee, who was perhaps Trump 's fiercest Republican critic during the campaign." I think it's outrageous," Gingrich says. " Romney said vile and vicious things. Romney opposed him all the way up to the election. In my judgment, Romney will be a very high risk ... because I think Romney has zero interest in the Trump revolution and every interest in re-establishing his own credentials." While he views former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani as a better choice, Gingrich says House Speaker Paul Ryan "is very strongly in favor of Romney" and that Priebus is "pretty strongly" in favor of him. Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, however, has warned of a grassroots revolt if Romney is named to the Cabinet's top job. When he met with Trump last week, Gingrich says, " He commented, ' This is really a bigger job than I thought.' Which is good. He should think that." As president, Gingrich went on, "you have war and peace, you have enormous powers ... and it all comes down to the Oval Office and it all comes down to you." He argues that Trump , who hasn't held a news conference since July, should feel no obligation to hold any as president, suggesting instead he solicit questions from the public to answer. " The news media so totally disgraced itself in this election, if I were Trump I would just say no," Gingrich says. " And if the White House Correspondents Association doesn't like it, I'd say, ' Fine, disband.'" Gingrich says the political world hasn't yet come to grips with the sort of fundamental change the election of "the most insurgent president in American history" could bring. He describes Trump as "one-third Andrew Jackson in disruption, one-third Theodore Roosevelt in sheer energy, and one-third P. T. Barnum in selling all the time." But he says Trump might need to occasionally curb his instincts." He should tweet, but he ought to have an editorial board in-between the first draft and sending it," he suggests — not an idea Trump seems likely to accept. " But he shouldn't give it up, and he shouldn't give up being Donald Trump . He got elected being this unique, charismatic, entrepreneurial guy who breaks lots of rules. ... If he starts getting to be normal, he'll cease being Donald J. Trump ." USA TODAY Trump denounces flag burning, Twitter points out it is constitutional Former House speaker Newt Gingrich and USA TODAY 's Susan Page on Capital Download ( Photo: Sean Dougherty, USAT) CONNECTTWEET
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/224993008/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Sanders-backs-Trump-protests-questions-Electoral-College/
Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College  Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College The surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic nomination wasn't shocked by Trump 's victory Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College Susan Page  Published 8:03 p.m. ET Nov. 13, 2016 | Updated 1:51 p.m. ET Nov. 14, 2016   Sen. Bernie Sanders called for “rethinking” the Electoral College and warned President-elect Donald Trump that he should expect more street protests if he pursues divisive policies.  LINKEDIN Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, the surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic presidential nomination, sat down Sunday with USA TODAY 's Capital Download to talk about last week's election stunner, the future of the Democratic Party and his new book, being published Tuesday by Thomas Dunne Books, Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity. Q: If you had been nominated, would you have won? Sanders: Monday-morning quarterbacking is always easy. The answer is, I don’t know. Nobody knows. I certainly wish I had had that opportunity. Some of the polls out there suggest that might have been the case. Q: How much overlap was there between you and Donald Trump in your appeal? Sanders: There is an overlap, that Trump very successfully understood a lot of people are angry. They feel the economy of this country is not working for them. I mean, Trump was incredibly weak, and its ahistorical, the lack of specificity that he had in any of his proposals. Boy, Hillary Clinton had 87 different proposals all lined up and Trump said, ‘ We’re going to do this great. It’s going to be excellent. Really excellent.’ What are you talking about? ‘ Excellent, fantastic program.’ No details, no nothing. ... The overwhelming stuff on television had to do with political gossip. Know everything you want to know about Hillary’s emails and Donald Trump ’s attitude toward women. Why is the middle class in decline? Why are we the only major country not to have paid family leave? Why aren’t our kids able to afford to go to college? Those are the issues that we have got to talk about. Does corporate media talk about it? No. ... Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In, by Bernie Sanders ( Photo: Thomas Dunne Books) It is naive to not understand who owns the media in America, the major media: large, multinational conglomerates. What is their goal? Their goal is to make money. Is there a basic conflict between making money for large media and having a serious discussion on issues that impact working people? Yeah, I think there are. Q: We see anti- Trump demonstrations cropping up across the country. Is that a good thing? Sanders: We have a First Amendment. People are angry. People are upset. And they want to express their point of view that they are very frightened, in very, very strong disagreement with Mr. Trump , who has made bigotry the cornerstone of his campaign. ... I think that people are saying, ‘ Mr. Trump , we have come too far in this country fighting discrimination and bigotry. We’re not going back. And if you’re going to continue that effort, you’re going to have to take us on.’ ... USA TODAY Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers We may want to take a look at the whole Electoral College, which is seating a man for president who didn’t get the most votes. This is something we need a serious discussion on. This campaign revolved around 15 states of the country, right? Battleground states. My state of Vermont is a strong Democratic state; no one paid attention. Wyoming is a Republican state; nobody paid attention to Wyoming. Is that a good way? Q: Would it be good to change the Electoral College? A: I think you ought to think about this. ... I think we want to rethink that. Q: Is it fair to say you wrote this book on the assumption Clinton would win? Sanders: I thought there was a 2-1 shot she was going to win. I was not one of those who was shocked by a Trump victory. ... Q: You were in the minority to think there was even a one in three shot that Donald Trump would win. Sanders: Look, I campaigned in 46 states in this country. The punditry and the inside-the- Beltway mentality really has very little understanding of what’s going on with working people. It’s really almost embarrassing. ... You’re a working person, you can’t afford child care for your kids. Why is it after working your whole life you can’t afford to send your kid to college? Why is it that you’re having a decent job at a factory, and that factory has gone to China? Why is it that you’re seeing almost all new income and wealth go to the top 1%? People are angry and they’re frustrated. Q: You’re supporting Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison for Democratic national chairman. Is he going to win? Sanders: He stands a good chance.... It’s not just this election where it is still hard to believe that Trump won. But Republicans control the Senate. They control the House. They have done phenomenally well over the past eight years in state legislatures around the country, in governor races. And people are asking: How does it happen that a political party which wants to give tax breaks to billionaires, which nobody supports; which wants to cut programs for working people; wants to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid; many of whose members do not even believe in the reality of climate change – how in God’s name do these guys win elections ? Well, the Democratic leadership of today hasn’t figured this out. It is time for profound change. ... What this book is about -- and I know people are going to say, ‘ Oh my God, Bernie talks about the economy, talks about health care, talks about immigration, talks about criminal justice, talks about all these things how boring can it be?’ I know it will be criticized. Boring. It’s wonky. But I think we got to begin talking about real issues. Q: There are quite a few charts in your book. Sanders: ( Laughs) Yes. Bernie Sanders: A look at his political career
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/218330552/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Dana-Perino-Trump-candidacy-has-set-GOP-women-adrift/
Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift'  Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift' A Republican stalwart debates whether to just stay home and warns of a hidden Clinton vote Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift' Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift' Susan Page  Dana Perino, former White House press secretary and co-host of Fox TV's ' The Five.'( Photo: Robert Deutsch, USAT) CONNECTTWEET  LINKEDIN Dana Perino, a former White House press secretary for President George W. Bush, personifies the GOP’s looming crisis with women voters. At 44, she is a lifelong Republican and aide to Republican officeholders, but she’s not voting for Donald Trump on Election Day. Perino, co-host of Fox's  The Five, is promoting her new book,  Let Me Tell You About Jasper: How My Best Friend Became America’s Dog, published by Twelve. She was interviewed for USA TODAY 's Capital Download Friday in New York. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity. Q: You’ve worked for Republican congressmen, in a Republican Justice Department and at a Republican White House. So are you voting for the Republican presidential nominee next month? Perino: I do feel adrift as a Republican woman, maybe a woman without a party. ... You sort of feel like, ‘ I don’t know if I belong anymore.’ Now, there are plenty of Republican women that support Donald Trump fervently and passionately, without any hesitation. I just have hesitation and I don’t know what I’m going to do. I don’t know if I’m even going to vote, and I have a perfect voting record. USA TODAY Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers Q: Why is Trump losing so many women voters?  Perino: I think that a lot of women in their gut are concerned about the temperament, and knowledge and experience, (although) they don’t necessarily like Hillary Clinton. ... Unless the Republican Party changes either the way that it talks about things (like sexual assault) or the way it approaches issues like paid maternity leave, they’re going to risk losing women in the future. But it also depends on how Hillary Clinton decides to govern, and I think we don’t know what that’s going to be like, if she becomes president.' Let Me Tell You About Jasper,' by Dana Perino ( Photo: Twelve, Hachette Book Group) Q: A question for you from a reader on Twitter: What did you think about the exchange between Megyn Kelly and Newt Gingrich? ( Gingrich accused the Fox News anchor of being “fascinated by sex” when she asked about allegations of sexual misconduct by Trump .) Perino: I thought Megyn was extremely, exceedingly professional. I do think that it’s a news story and I don’t think that the news media is just making up the news story. ... When he ( Trump ) went to Gettysburg ( Pa.) and he made the Gettysburg address, I called it the Gettysburg redress of grievances. Because substantively, if you’re a Republican, you could read that speech or listen to it, and say ‘ I agree with all that. School choice, lower taxes, I’m for that.’ But adding the paragraph that he’s going to sue all the women (accusers) after the election – one, to me was about intimidation to make sure if you were thinking of coming out, don’t. It’s calling women liars and it’s putting them on the defensive. Look, we just went through a summer at Fox News where questions of sexual harassment came up. Q: The issue of sexual harassment has had a political power this year it hasn’t had before. Perino: I certainly think so. In fact, what I thought was strange about the way the Trump campaign handled all that was, one of their strongest talking points against Hillary Clinton’s character had been how accusers of Bill Clinton had been treated through the years. But now accusers of Donald Trump are being treated in the exact same way that they complain Hillary Clinton treated those women. So it kind of canceled each other out. No wonder people are dissatisfied with this election. Q: Do you think Trump could win? Perino: I think it’s unlikely. However, I do remember 2000.... I do think that anything could happen. When Donald Trump ’s campaign says that there are a lot of undecideds out there and people who are not willing to admit that they plan to vote for Donald Trump , that might be true. But I also think it could be true on the other side as well. For instance, these Republican women who feel adrift, if they decide they’re going to go to the polls to vote for Hillary Clinton, they’re probably not telling too many people about that. Q: Are you a secret Hillary Clinton voter? Perino: No, I am not going to vote for Hillary. Q: Is it conceivable you would vote for Trump ? Perino: No. My question right now is: Do I go in and write in a candidate that I don’t even know? Or do I not even go? .... It pains me to think about not voting, but not that much, actually. I feel that decision is actually making a statement. President George W. Bush and White House Press Secretary Dana Perino at the White House in September 2008. ( Photo: Alex Wong, Getty Images) CONNECTTWEET
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307742408/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~ Drug-makers-use-copay-coupons-to-help-mask-their-rising-drug-prices/
 Drug makers use co-pay coupons to help mask their rising drug prices  Drug makers use co-pay coupons to help mask their rising drug prices Co-payment coupons and drugmakers' patient assistance programs help patients afford their medications, but critics say they also keep drug prices high and lead to higher insurance costs. Drug makers use co-pay coupons to help mask their rising drug prices  Co-payment coupons and drugmakers' patient assistance programs help patients afford their medications, but critics say they also keep drug prices high and lead to higher insurance costs.  Drug makers use co-pay coupons to help mask their rising drug prices Jayne O' Donnell  Published 8:06 a.m. ET May 3, 2017 | Updated 2 hours ago Trevis Gleason, author of the new book " Chef Interrupted" has multiple sclerosis and decries the high cost of the drugs and the widespread use of coupons.( Photo: Manuela Agner) Drug maker-funded coupons and patient assistance programs are proving to be an uncertain and often questionable way for patients to afford what a new report shows are increasingly expensive specialty and other brand name drugs. Growth in drug spending by commercial and government insurance plans slowed last year to 5.8%m less than half the growth rate in 2014 and 2015, a report by the Quintiles IMS Institute showed. Much of the slowing was due to lower sales of Hepatitis C drugs. Still, a report out Wednesday by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA) found cumulative spending on drugs that are still under patent is rising at an average annual rate that's more than double the rate of increase in spending for all drugs and was up 285% between 2010 to 2016 . During the same period, overall spending on brand name and generic drugs with competition dropped by 47%, the analysis of 30 million BSBSA commercial insurance claims showed. Underscoring the needs for the coupons, patients who account for 2% of the prescriptions are responsible for 32% of total out of pocket costs, the Quintiles IMS report shows. Some patients and advocates say co-pay assistance enhances the drug maker’s public image while it obscures their high prices. One patient advocate says the companies can often write off their assistance on their taxes, which gives them another financial benefit. The new Quintiles IMS report found the percentage of prescriptions filled using a coupon increased from 13% to 19% between 2013 and 2016 ." It's become a little bit of a war between the health plans and the pharmaceutical manufacturers," says Murray Aitken, executive director of the Quintiles IMS Institute. By limiting a patient's out-of-pocket costs for drugs, drug companies thwart the most effective tool insurers have to control drug costs. After commercially insured patients meet their deductibles or out-of-pocket premiums, the insurers pay the higher drug costs, which get passed along in higher premiums. Medicare patients are prohibited from using co-pay coupons, but are often eligible for drug makers' patient assistance programs." The higher the co-pay, the more it's supposed to make you wonder, ' Do I really want that drug?,'" says Salisbury, Md., pharmacist Matthew Balish. One of  Balish's customers, however, says she really appreciates the Xarelto zero co-pay card.  Starlin Weaver, a science education professor at Salisbury State University, takes the blood thinner to prevent blood clots like the one that nearly killed her in 2004.  She tried competing drugs before her insurer agreed to pay for Xarelto, but says they didn't work as well." I'll pay whatever I have to pay," Weaver says, because her doctor told her Xarelto is the drug most likely to prevent another clot. Coupons didn't match price hikes There was widespread public outcry over high Epi Pen prices last summer when co-pay coupons didn't offset huge price hikes, especially for those with high-deductible insurance plans. Now, reductions in the level of drug maker assistance is driving home just how pricey some patients' drugs are, but for a far more broader swath of patients. More than half of commercially insured patients’ out-of-pocket spending for brand medicines is based on the full list price rather than the discounted price the insurer or pharmacist pays, according to an analysis by Amundsen Consulting commissioned by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ( Ph RMA). Co-pay coupons help offset this, says Ph RMA spokeswoman Holly Campbell. David Mitchell is a multiple myeloma patient who founded the group Patients for Affordable Drugs in February. ( Photo: Patients for Affordable Drugs) Drug makers use their marketing budgets to pay for co-pay coupons, while patient assistance for Medicare patients (who are prohibited fro using coupons) comes directly from drug companies' foundations or outside "charities." Multiple myeloma patient David Mitchell, who founded the group Patients for Affordable Drugs in February, decries drug makers' ability to get tax deductions for something they bill as charity but that's really marketing money that's largely returned to their coffers." They say they're doing this to help patients," says Mitchell. " But they know their market share and how much will come back to them. If they have the only drug, they know every penny is coming back to them." Salisbury, Md. pharmacist shows some of the drawer full of co pay cards he's gotten from drug company representatives. ( Photo: Courtesy of Matthew Balish) Balish agrees: " It's a shame that drug makers have to price the products so exorbitantly that they must then offer assistance programs as a form of charity." As prices continue to rise, the coupons and other patient assistance affect patients in different ways;• Donut hole. Medicare patients seldom realize that the often-hefty help they're getting from drug companies counts as if it were their own contribution. That means they hit the coverage gap known as the "donut hole" faster, says Phoenix pharmacist Teresa Stickler. Some of her patients on high-priced cholesterol drugs, including Repatha and Praluent, simply stop taking these medications until their cost sharing goes down when they hit Medicare's catastrophic coverage. At that point, when they've spent $4,950 out-of-pocket in 2017, their cost sharing for covered drugs drops significantly for the rest of the year. .• Co-pay card changes. Drug maker Janssen Pharmaceuticals, which makes Xarelto,  changed its co-pay card policy early this year for some patients from a zero co-pay to a set $200 a year off. Customers are often shocked to learn that their co-pay assistance went away.   One of Balish's customers, a retiree, was shocked to find he suddenly owed about $180 a month for Xarelto, up from nothing.• Limited assistance.  When new patient assistance funds become available for different drugs, pharmacists and patient groups say they alert their customers, but many of them lose out. " There is such high demand and then they close down again," after two or three days, says Tim Coetzee, chief research officer for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. " It speaks to the broader issue deal with the economics. Our view is medications need to be affordable and accessible in the system to get them." About a quarter of people taking either brand name or specialty drugs simply stop taking them when they have a deductible to meet, according to the new Quintiles/ IMS report.   For those with deductibles, the rate of this "abandonment" of prescriptions was higher for specialty drugs - or 27% - compared to other brand name drugs which got abandoned at the drug stores about 23% of the time. Among BCBSA's top 25 patent-protected drugs in 2015 spending, the multiple sclerosis ( MS) drug Gilenya increased 30,257% over a seven-year period. Such price increases have led  some MS patients and the National MS Society to be very critical of drug pricing and patient assistance. Financial assistance from industry amounts to "a dirty, infected Band- Aid" for the problem of high drug prices, MS blogger and author Trevis Gleason wrote recently. Three MS drugs were on the market when Gleason was diagnosed with MS 15 years ago when he was 50. Now there are 14, and when a newer more expensive drug hits the markets, all drug makers raise their prices. Gleason, who wrote the memoir Chef  Interrupted, is not taking a disease modifying drug for his MS currently because it would cost him $900 a month. Read more:  What the GOP bill could mean for 'essential health benefits' Secret deals may mean consumers pay more for drugs Cancer patient, outraged by sky-high drug prices, organizes others to fight them Possible solutions include requiring drug makers to offer similar co-pay assistance to all patients and prohibiting coupons that don't cover the length of the prescription, says physician Peter Bach, director of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center's Center for Health Policy and Outcomes. If pharmacies had to report co-pay assistance to insurers separately from patients' cash payments, Bach says that would temper price inflation. Drug makers are "doing it to manipulate the market," says Bach. " And the patient pays one way or another," whether it's with their tax dollars for Medicare or higher premiums in commercial insurance. Drugmakers say money for co-pay assistance is not unique to its industry. As Campbell noted in an emailed statement, "hospitals and providers often have charity programs to forgive medical bills for patients who cannot afford their cost-sharing associated with their treatment and care." True, says Mitchell, "except that (the pharmaceutical industry) uses coupons the same way Clorox does - to incentivize people to buy the product." Tell us your drug price story at healthinsurance@usatoday.com
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308132219/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-to-sign-executive-order-to-protect-and-vigorously-promote-religious-liberty/
 Trump to sign executive order to 'protect and vigorously promote religious liberty'  Trump to sign executive order to 'protect and vigorously promote religious liberty' Civil liberties groups are concerned Trump 's actions will enable discrimination against gays and religious minorities. Trump to sign executive order to 'protect and vigorously promote religious liberty'  Civil liberties groups are concerned Trump 's actions will enable discrimination against gays and religious minorities.  Trump to sign executive order to 'protect and vigorously promote religious liberty'  Published 6:06 p.m. ET May 3, 2017 | Updated 4 hours ago President Donald Trump , First Lady Melania Trump , Vice President Michael Pence and his wife Karen Pence attends the National Prayer Service at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington, DC, USA, 21 January 2017.( Photo: OLIVIER DOULIERY / POOL, EPA) Seeking to appeal to social conservatives who backed him in heavy numbers, President Trump will issue an executive order Thursday designed to "protect and vigorously promote religious liberty" and "alleviate the burden" of a law designed to prohibit religious leaders from speaking out about politics, according to senior administration officials. The order aims to make it easier for employers with religious objections not to include contraception coverage in workers' health care plans, although it would be up to federal agencies to determine how that would happen. It would also ease IRS enforcement of the so-called Johnson Amendment, which says tax-exempt religious organizations cannot participate in political activity. While only Congress can formally do away with the law, this will pave the way for churches and other religious leaders to speak about politics and endorse candidates without worrying about losing their tax-exempt status. Although the White House released few details of the executive order, which is not as sweeping as a draft leaked earlier this year, civil liberties groups are already gearing up for a fight. Lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union and the Human Rights Campaign had said earlier in the day they plan to immediately file legal challenges against the order, if it is as broad as a draft that leaked earlier this year. Before details about the order were released, they expressed concerns that Trump 's actions would encourage employers to deny birth control services in their health plans, and could enable discrimination against gays and religious minorities.“ It would create an unprecedented license to discriminate with taxpayers’ funds, undermine women’s health care and elevate one narrow set of religious beliefs over all others,” said Sarah Warbelow, legal director for the Human Rights Campaign, of the previous leaked draft. Trump is expected to sign the executive order on Thursday, which is the National Day of Prayer. And religious conservatives appeared fired up for the signing. “ There could be no better day to sign an executive order on religious freedom than the National Day of Prayer,” said Mat Staver who heads the Liberty Counsel, a legal group that has fought against same-sex marriage. And  Vice President Pence, who set off a national firestorm when he signed a religious freedom law as governor of Indiana in 2015, was scheduled to host members of the White House’s “ Evangelical Advisory Board” at a White House dinner Wednesday. Yet the opposition has begun:  Gay and civil rights advocates protested in front of the White House Wednesday, saying the pending executive order is the latest Trump administration action that attacks the rights of immigrants, Muslims, women and members of the LGBTQ community. And campaign-finance watchdog groups on Wednesday night denounced Trump ’s move to ease the Treasury Department’s enforcement of the so-called Johnson amendment." President Trump seems to believe the law is whatever he says it is,” said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21.“ He attacks judges and the courts for interpreting the law differently than what he pronounces the laws to be and now he appears to be trying to nullify laws by not having them enforced,” he said. “ The Trump administration is rapidly becoming a lawless administration.” American Civil Liberties Union lawyer Brigitte Amiri said earlier in the day the group was "exploring all options," including suing the government, in response to an easing of enforcement of the Johnson Amendment. House to vote Thursday on GOP Obamacare repeal bill House passes bill to fund government through September Religious conservatives have long pushed Trump to renew what they say is an “appreciation for religious freedom” they say the Obama administration undermined despite a law created in 1993 to protect religious freedom.“ It’s simply bringing the federal government back in line with [the Religious Freedom Restoration Act],” Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, said last month about the need for an executive order. Though conservatives may be hoping for that, a senior administration official said that Thursday's order is not about the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, but did not say whether there would be another executive order addressing that law.  During his campaign, Trump pledged that the “first priority of my administration will be to preserve and protect our religious liberty.” Religious conservatives, though, waited anxiously for action – and some were disappointed when the White House announced in January that Trump would not undo President Obama’s executive order protecting employees from anti- LGBTQ workplace discrimination while working for federal contractors. The administration emphasized at the time that Trump is proud to be the first Republican nominee to mention the LGBTQ community in his nomination acceptance speech and “is determined to protect the rights of all Americans, including the LGBTQ community.” Perkins said last month the expected religious freedom executive order has been delayed in part because “there are some counterviews” within the administration about whether it’s necessary. But he was optimistic it will come, and that Pence would provide “solid counsel that will be in line with what a lot of evangelicals feel and think.” The state religious freedom law Pence backed as Indiana’s governor sparked a backlash over whether it would allow florists, bakers and others to deny services to gays and lesbians. Those are not the services that would be affected by the executive order – at least as initially drafted, civil liberties lawyers said. However, the groups remain concerned that Trump 's directives – now or in the future – will affect organizations which receive a significant amount of federal funding to provide services such as homeless shelters, hospice care, and child welfare services, the Human Rights Campaign's  Warbelow said. After all, the leaked draft version of the order from earlier this year would allow those organizations to discriminate against the LGBTQ community, she said. A hospital, for example, could refuse to allow a same-sex partner to visit a dying spouse. A child welfare organization could refuse to place a child in care of a same-sex couple. Federal workers could also discriminate, she said, such as refusing to process spousal benefits for the spouse of a same-sex couple. “ There is an intention here to allow federal employees to utilize their religious views on the subject matters in the course of their jobs." The American Civil Liberties Union said the draft executive order would hurt women by allowing “almost any employer” to exclude contraceptive coverage – and other preventive care benefits required by the Affordable Care Act – from their insurance plans.“ This is discrimination against women plain and simple,” said the ACLU's Amiri. The ACLU is looking at “multiple opportunities” for challenging the executive order in court, she said, “because this is so clearly a violation of the Constitution.” Contributing: Fredreka Schouten.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307958848/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Tennessee-lawmakers-pass-week-abortion-ban/
Tennessee lawmakers pass 20-week abortion ban  Tennessee lawmakers pass 20-week abortion ban The bill also requires a test for viability and gestational age before a doctor could perform an abortion and subjects doctors who violate the law to a felony charge that can carry up to 15 years in prison. Tennessee lawmakers pass 20-week abortion ban  The bill also requires a test for viability and gestational age before a doctor could perform an abortion and subjects doctors who violate the law to a felony charge that can carry up to 15 years in prison.  Tennessee lawmakers pass 20-week abortion ban  Pro-choice protesters dress as handmaids to oppose anti-abortion bill on Senate floor that could reach the governor before the end of the week.  Jake Lowary/ USA TODAY NETWORK - Tennessee Anti-abortion protesters silently demonstrate May 1, 2017, outside the Tennessee Senate chamber in Nashville, protesting passage of a bill that imposes a 20-week abortion ban. Two days later the bill had passed both houses and was being sent to the governor.( Photo: Jake Lowary, The Tennessean)  NASHVILLE — Tennessee lawmakers gave final approval Wednesday to a bill that would create one of the strictest abortion laws in the country. After lengthy debate, the House voted along party lines on the Senate version of the bill, which passed that body Monday, and the proposal heads to Gov. Bill Haslam.  The sponsor, GOP Rep. Matthew Hill of Jonesborough, Tenn., said the bill is similar to laws in 20 other states that prohibit abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy and argued that none of them have faced successful court challenges." How anyone can advocate for the taking of that life after science and medicine have deemed it to be able to survive as an individual human being is beyond me," Hill said. The Guttmacher Institute, a private research group that supports abortion rights, lists 14 states that ban abortions after the 20th week post fertilization. Two additional states ban it after the 20th week from the beginning of a woman's last menstrual period, which takes two weeks off a fetus' age at conception, and that would include Tennessee if Haslam signs the bill. Both Arizona's and Idaho's 20-week abortion bans were struck down separately in federal courts, and Supreme Court justices declined to hear Arizona's case in 2014.► April 26: Why Martha Plimpton wore a red ' A' to ' Handmaid's Tale' premiere► April 7: Kentucky's last remaining abortion clinic won't close — for now No Republicans voted against Tennessee Senate Bill 1180, but nine, including House Speaker Beth Harwell, did not vote.  Democrats were vocal in their opposition. The bill also requires a test for fetal viability and gestational age before a doctor could perform an abortion and subjects doctors who violate the law to a felony charge that could carry up to 15 years in prison. Tennessee law does not define fetal viability. Babies born at 22 weeks after a woman's last menstrual period, 20 weeks after conception, are considered extremely preterm. Single-child pregnancies last an average of 40 weeks from the first day of the last menstrual period to birth, according to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.► January: ACLU files suit to block Kentucky abortion law passed in 4 days►  December: Ohio governor vetoes 'heartbeat' abortion bill but passes 20-week ban► May 2016 : S. C. governor signs 20-week abortion ban About a quarter of babies born at that 22-week last-menstrual-period age survived to toddlerhood, according to a study of almost 5,000 extremely early births at 24 hospitals in the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Neonatal Research Network. Babies born before that age have not survived. Haslam can sign the Tennessee bill into law, veto it or allow it to become law without his signature. Tennessee's governor rarely has vetoed bills in the past and has said he reviews every piece of legislation before making a decision on what action to take. After the state Senate passed the bill Monday, Haslam said he would review the bill with his staff and Tennessee Attorney General Herbert Slatery before deciding what to do.► 2015: Senate Democrats block bill to ban abortions after 20 weeks► 2015: GOP presidential hopeful Scott Walker signs abortion ban Initially, Slatery said SB 1180 and another abortion-related bill filed earlier this year were “constitutionally suspect,” but the provisions he objected to were subsequently removed. But the attorney general also said he was prepared to defend the potential law if challenged in court. Slatery declined to enforce two other abortion-related measures after the Supreme Court struck down similar measures in a Texas case. On the floor of the state House, Democratic Rep. Sherry Jones of Nashville presented one of the more fiery dissents of the bill, saying its target was all wrong.► 2014: Mississippi governor signs mid-pregnancy abortion ban► 2014: Court won't revive Arizona's 20-week abortion ban“ What we need to do is punish men who can’t keep their zippers up,” she said, especially those who commit incest and rape. The Tennessee Medical Association, a group that represents and lobbies on behalf of physicians has been neutral on the bill. Spokesman Dave Chaney said the group has been following the legislation closely "because if it becomes law we will need to help our members understand the changes and ensure they practice within the confines of the law."► 2013: Groups sue to halt key parts of Texas abortion law► 2013: Republicans push to restrict abortion at state level Jeff Teague, president and chief executive of  Planned Parenthood of Middle and East Tennessee urged Haslam to veto the bill, saying he was disappointed but not surprised at the Legislature's action."( The bill) will violate a woman's guaranteed right as found by the U. S. Supreme Court to safe, legal abortion," he told The Tennessean in a text message Wednesday. He also said Tennessee would become one of the most restrictive states in the nation on women's reproductive rights. Follow Jake Lowary on Twitter: @ Jake Lowary
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308362730/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~OnPolitics-Today-Republicans-are-trying-to-decrease-overtime-pay/
On Politics Today: Republicans are trying to decrease overtime pay  On Politics Today: Republicans are trying to decrease overtime pay If you're paid hourly, you'll want to read this. On Politics Today: Republicans are trying to decrease overtime pay  On Politics Today: Republicans are trying to decrease overtime pay Josh Hafner  Amazon has warehouses staffed all around the country allowing it to offer two-day delivery, including on Sunday in some markets. ( Photo: Amazon) More than half of Americans work hourly jobs. And if you work one for a private-sector company, know this: Republicans want to let employers skip time-and-a-half pay and offer you paid time off, instead. The GOP-majority House voted Tuesday to pass a bill that would alter the Fair Labor Standards Act, which currently makes companies pay time-and-a-half to workers who put in more than 40 hours in a week. Companies have lobbied for such a shift for years, claiming it would give them more flexibility and that some workers actually want less pay in exchange for time off. Critics, like Sen.  Elizabeth Warren, call it a way "for employers to cheat workers out of overtime." It goes now to the Senate. Also on Wednesday: Comey said he's sickened over thoughts around his Clinton email probe, the Obamacare repeal edged closer to a reality, and Trump said he'll fix that whole Israel- Palestine thing, which, unlike health care, is apparently not complicated. It's On Politics Today: USA TODAY 's daily politics roundup.  Subscribe here. Comey to Senate panel: I regret nothing   FBI Director James Comey is maintaining that he did not treat disclosures about investigations into Hillary Clinton's emails and potential connections between the Trump campaign and Russia differently. ( May 3)  APJames Comey, the FBI director who materializes every few months before a Senate panel, did so again Wednesday to defend his decision to publicly declare his probe into Hillary Clinton's email servers last fall. That disclosure came 11 days before the November election, and many Democrats — including Clinton herself — claim it tilted the contest in then-candidate Donald Trump 's favor." It makes me feel mildly nauseous that we might have had some impact on the election," Comey said. " But honestly, it wouldn't change the decision." Keeping quiet, Comey said, would have meant the "death of the FBI as an institution in America." He also said he's confident that Russia hacked the DNC, and remains involved in American politics: Russia is "the greatest threat to any nation on earth, given their intention and their ability," Comey said. Health care repeal: House vote on tweaked bill planned for Thursday Speaker Paul Ryan, accompanied by Rep. Cathy Mc Morris Rodgers, addresses reporters on Capitol Hill on May 2, 2017. ( Photo: Cliff Owen, AP) House Republicans said they'll vote Thursday on the latest bill aimed at repealing and replacing Obamacare. Amid an inner-party tug-of-war over the bill, GOP leaders announced an $8 billion amendment meant to woo still-wary moderates. The money would go to help those with pre-existing conditions pay for higher costs they look to face under the GOP's proposed law. The new change was enough for at least two House Republicans, Fred Upton of Michigan and Billy Long of Missouri, to switch their votes. GOP leaders can only afford to lose about 22 Republican votes for the bill to still pass. Multiple counts had the number of GOP holdouts at about 20 on Tuesday. Godspeed: Trump says he's the guy who will bring peace to  Israeli- Palestinian conflict   President Donald Trump welcomed Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas to the White House Wednesday, hoping to make strides toward promoting peace with Israel. ( May 3)  AP" We want to create peace between Israel and the Palestinians," Trump said during meetings at the White House on Wednesday with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian  Authority. " We will get it done. We will be working so hard to get it done." Trump would be the first person to both accomplish such a peace agreement as president and to star in an '80s sex comedy called “ Ghosts Can’t Do It." Elsewhere in politics​ Puerto  Rico is bankrupt, so that's a thing now Trump 's upcoming fight on 'religious freedom'  Oregon governor: Trump 's convincing women to run for office Sean Spicer talks sports!
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307897422/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~House-to-vote-Thursday-on-GOP-Obamacare-repeal-bill/
Obamacare repeal bill: House to vote Thursday  House to vote Thursday on GOP Obamacare repeal bill House Republicans snagged a few more votes for their Obamacare repeal-and-replace bill after promising to plump it up with an $8 billion amendment designed to help those with pre-existing conditions pay for their health care. House to vote Thursday on GOP Obamacare repeal bill  House Republicans snagged a few more votes for their Obamacare repeal-and-replace bill after promising to plump it up with an $8 billion amendment designed to help those with pre-existing conditions pay for their health care.  House to vote Thursday on GOP Obamacare repeal bill Deirdre Shesgreen  A second showdown on repealing and replacing Obamacare could happen this week. Will the GOP have enough votes?  Newslook Rep. Fred Upton, joined by Reps. Billy Long and Greg Walden, speaks to the media about health care negotiations after meeting with President Trump at the White House on May 3, 2017.( Photo: Jim Lo Scalzo, European Pressphoto Agency)  — After wooing GOP moderates with extra money for patients with pre-existing conditions, House Republicans said they would vote Thursday on a revised bill to repeal and replace Obamacare — setting the stage for a high-stakes showdown on one of President Trump 's top priorities. House GOP leaders announced the vote Wednesday night after weeks of negotiations, hours of wooing wavering Republicans, and a last-minute sweetener added to the bill: an $8 billion amendment to help patients with pre-existing conditions pay for higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs. Republican leaders suggested they would have enough votes to pass the bill in the House, although the vote could be a down-to-the-wire squeaker. The decision to schedule the vote will ramp up the pressure on a clutch of still-undecided lawmakers, and Republicans clearly had momentum on Wednesday evening." I support the bill with this amendment," said Rep. Fred Upton, R- Mich., after meeting with President Trump at the White House on Wednesday morning about his proposal to beef up funding to help individuals with pre-existing conditions. Upton is an influential player on health care policy, and he had previously opposed the bill amid concerns it would put insurance out of reach for those with chronic illnesses and other health conditions. Another holdout, Rep. Billy Long, R- Mo., also switched from a "no" to a "yes" after meeting with Trump and working with Upton on his amendment. The biggest sticking point so far: the provision in Obamacare that bars insurance companies from discriminating against those with pre-existing conditions. The current GOP bill would dramatically weaken that, by allowing insurance companies charge people with pre-existing conditions —anything from cancer to pregnancy — higher premiums than other consumers. That change prompted Upton's push to add the extra $8 billion to help sicker patients pay their premiums and other health care bills. Upton and Long both sit on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has played a central role in drafting the GOP bill, called the American Health Care Act. Read more: Republicans still don't know whether they have enough votes to pass Obamacare repeal Another 'no' spells more trouble for revised GOP Obamacare replacement bill Republicans miss 100-day target but still feel pressure to get Obamacare repeal done Freedom Caucus backs Obamacare repeal bill with new changes A bevy of patient advocacy groups, including the American Heart Association and the American Cancer Society, strongly opposed the bill despite the tweaks offered by Upton and others. In a letter urging lawmakers to reject the proposal, 10 health organizations said the measure would undermine key patient safeguards, lead to higher out-of-pocket expenses, and jeopardize coverage for millions of Americans." This bill is fundamentally harmful to patients," the letter stated. With Democrats unified against the measure, GOP leaders can only lose about 22 Republicans and still pass the bill. The proposal has been a tug-of-war between the moderate and conservative factions inside the House Republican Conference during weeks of intense negotiations and embarrassing setbacks. By the count of various news outlets, about 20 lawmakers said they’d vote “no” as of Wednesday afternoon and about two dozen others remained undecided. With the new money, Republicans expressed confidence that they could win passage of the bill, a message echoed by hard-line conservatives who helped tank an earlier version of the GOP measure." We see that as being a net plus in terms of the vote count," said Rep. Mark Meadows, R- N. C., head of the conservative House Freedom Caucus. In a series of radio interviews Wednesday, House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., said Republicans were getting “extremely close” to having the votes they need in the House.  He touted the latest changes to the bill, asserting that with added funding for high-risk pools, “we’re making sure that we have three or four layers of protections for people with pre-existing conditions.” Ryan also said that by promoting high-risk pools and directly subsidizing people with catastrophic illnesses, “you dramatically lower the price of premiums for everyone else buying health insurance.” Speaker Paul Ryan, accompanied by Rep. Cathy Mc Morris Rodgers, addresses reporters on Capitol Hill on May 2, 2017. ( Photo: Cliff Owen, AP) But critics said the Upton provision was still woefully inadequate to protect those with pre-existing conditions, and they noted that the Congressional Budget Office estimated an earlier version of the legislation would cause 24 million people to either forgo or lose their health insurance.“ Despite today’s wheeling and dealing, the GOP repeal bill still drops the coverage guarantee for people with pre-existing conditions, strips coverage from millions, and drives up costs for millions more," said Frederick Isasi, executive director of Families USA, a liberal-leaning health advocacy group. " A measly $8 billion handout isn’t going to change that." The American Medical Association, a powerful advocacy group representing physicians, slammed the GOP bill even with the revisions.“ High-risk pools are not a new idea," AMA President Andrew W. Gurman said in a statement Wednesday. " The history of high-risk pools demonstrates that Americans with pre-existing conditions will be stuck in second-class health care coverage — if they are able to obtain coverage at all." And some Republicans reaffirmed their opposition to the bill and blasted the latest changes as Washington at its worst." The AHCA is like a kidney stone — the House doesn't care what happens to it, as long as they can pass it," Rep. Thomas Massie, R- Ky., said in a tweet on Wednesday. The GOP bill would repeal major elements of the 2010 Affordable Care Act and allow states to opt out of other provisions, including several popular consumer protections. For example, states could seek a waiver from existing requirements that insurers must cover maternity care, substance abuse and other key health services. States can also seek an exemption of the pre-existing condition protections, allowing insurers to charge such patients more if the state has created a high-risk pool. Such risk-sharing programs are intended to help lower patient costs, but they have had mixed results in the past. Even if the House approves the bill on Thursday, it faces uncertain prospects in the Senate. Some Senate Republicans are lukewarm about the House bill, and Senate Democrats are fiercely opposed." Its chances for survival in the Senate are small," said the Senate's top Democrat, Chuck Schumer of New York, on Wednesday. If the House does not pass the bill this week, it would be a huge blow to Trump and to House Republicans, who have both invested significant political capital into making good on this GOP campaign promise. Some lawmakers warned they would be forced to look at other options for unraveling Obamacare.“ There’s only so long that you can work a certain principal to try to get to 218 votes, and I don’t know that that improves with time," Meadows said. " If we don’t have a vote this week on it, we’ll have to do a different strategy." Contributing: David Jackson, Eliza Collins and Craig Gilbert
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308167965/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Rep-Roe-wont-let-health-care-vote-keep-him-from-getting-to-the-church-on-time/
Rep. Roe won't let health care vote keep him from getting to the church on time  Rep. Roe won't let health care vote keep him from getting to the church on time The upcoming health care vote is making the soon-to-be-married Rep. Phil Roe "anxious." Rep. Roe won't let health care vote keep him from getting to the church on time  Rep. Roe won't let health care vote keep him from getting to the church on time William Cummings  White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer declined to say when a vote on an Obamacare replacement might happen, but he said the chances of a vote are, 'greater and greater every day.' ( May 3)  APThe possibility of a Thursday vote to repeal and replace Obamacare has Rep. Phil Roe, R- Tenn., nervous due to a pre-existing condition: He's engaged to be married on Saturday.  Roe, liked many lawmakers, expected to leave the capital on Thursday for a week-long recess, but his plans are now up in the air amid plans for a vote on health care Thursday. If the vote is on Thursday as planned — or even if it gets bumped back to Friday — Roe vows to be there. But, he told CNN, the chance of a Saturday vote has the self-described "unlucky" Roe feeling "anxious."" I could see this trainwreck happening two weeks ago," he told CNN. " That's why I don't buy lottery tickets. I never bought one because I'm so unlucky."" If the vote's on Friday, I'll vote on Friday and I'll drive home or get home some way," Roe said. " I'll figure out how to get to Tennessee." Roe is staying positive." There's not going to be a Saturday vote," Roe told CNN. " I'm going to my wedding Saturday."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308281710/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Obamas-speech-could-prompt-Congress-to-go-after-his-pension/
Barack Obama's Wall Street speech may prompt Congress to go after his pension Last year, the former president vetoed a bill that would have cut his pension.  Obama's $400,000 speech could prompt Congress to go after his pension Gregory Korte  Former president Barack Obama visits with youth leaders at the University of Chicago to help promote community organizing on April 24 in Chicago. The visit marked Obama's first formal public appearance since leaving office.( Photo: Scott Olson, Getty Images)  — Last year, then-president Barack Obama vetoed a bill that would have curbed the pensions of former presidents if they took outside income of $400,000 or more. So now that former president Barack Obama has decided to accept $400,000 for an upcoming Wall Street speech, the sponsors of that bill say they'll reintroduce that bill in hopes that President Trump will sign it." The Obama hypocrisy on this issue is revealing," said Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R- Utah, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and sponsor of the 2016 bill. " His veto was very self-serving." Chaffetz and Sen. Joni Ernst, R- Iowa, the sponsor of the companion Senate bill, say they will re-introduce the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act this month. The bill would cap presidential pensions at $200,000, with another $200,000 for expenses. But those payments would be reduced dollar-for-dollar once their outside income exceeds $400,000. The issue isn't a partisan one — or at least, it wasn't last year.  The bill passed both the House and Senate with no opposition, and no veto threat had come from the White House. So when Obama's veto came one Friday night last July — on the last day for him to sign or veto the legislation — it took lawmakers by surprise. It was the 11th of Obama's 12 vetoes. At the time, Obama argued that the bill would have "unintended consequences" and "impose onerous and unreasonable burdens" on former presidents by requiring them to immediately lay off staff and find new office space. Republican leaders did not call up the bill for a veto override, which would have required a two-thirds majority in both chambers. Democrats say they won't necessarily oppose changes. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D- Md., the top Democrat on Chaffetz's committee, was a co-sponsor of the original bill. “ Cummings definitely supports the concept, and if we can work out the technical issues with the bill that arose late in the last Congress, we expect he would strongly support it again," said spokeswoman Jennifer Hoffman Werner. Trump has not taken a position on the legislation. But during the campaign, he said he'd take a close look at pensions for elected officials — especially members of Congress." The first thing I’m going to do is tell you that if I’m elected president, I’m accepting no salary, OK?" he said at a town hall in 2015. " They get benefits that nobody else can even think about, OK. And they don’t like to talk about it. But we’ll work on that." Under the Former Presidents Act, the nation's five living former presidents — Jimmy Carter, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Obama — get a pension equal to the salary of a current cabinet secretary: $207,800 in 2017. They also get $150,000 to pay staff, and “suitable office space, appropriately furnished and equipped." In 2015, the entire benefit package ranged from $430,000 for Carter to $1.1 million for George W. Bush. With Obama joining the club as of Jan. 20, the 2017 spending bill approved by the House Wednesday contained nearly $3.9 million for all the former presidents through Sept. 30 — a $588,000 annual increase. Obama spokesman Kevin Lewis said the former president had no comment on the legislation. Obama has already shown he has considerable potential to raise money in his post-presidential career. He and his wife Michelle have signed a publishing deal for two separate books, which the Financial Times reported was worth at least $65 million. And the Wall Street speech — a health care conference planned by investment firm  Cantor Fitzgerald in September — will reportedly net him another $400,000." President Obama will deliver speeches from time to time," said Eric Schultz, a former White House spokesman who continues to advise Obama. " Some of those speeches will be paid, some will be unpaid, and regardless of venue or sponsor, President Obama will be true to his values, his vision, and his record." Obama has said he also plans to use his post-presidency to work on a range of issues through his presidential center in Chicago. On Wednesday, he unveiled the design of that center and said he would donate $2 million to a summer jobs program for Chicago youth. A spokesman for President George H. W. Bush said he does not oppose changes to the law, and expects that Congress will likely take some action." At age 93, he recognizes that any change to the act would have a greater impact on the other former presidents," said spokesman Jim Mc Grath. " For the sake of future occupants of the office, he does think some consideration should be given to the public role former presidents play — and we are told that very positive conversations addressing that and other matters have taken place."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308142091/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~As-Trump-prepares-to-sign-executive-order-heres-a-history-of-religious-freedom-laws/
As Trump prepares to sign executive order, here's a history of 'religious freedom' laws  As Trump prepares to sign executive order, here's a history of 'religious freedom' laws The “religious freedom” executive order would be the latest volley in the longstanding tug between balancing religious freedoms and preventing discrimination. As Trump prepares to sign executive order, here's a history of 'religious freedom' laws  The “religious freedom” executive order would be the latest volley in the longstanding tug between balancing religious freedoms and preventing discrimination.  As Trump prepares to sign executive order, here's a history of 'religious freedom' laws Maureen Groppe  A light and steady snow falls during a rally outside of the U. S. Supreme Court during oral arguments in Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby March 25, 2014 in Washington, DC. The court heard from lawyers on both sides of Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby, a case that may determine whether the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 allows a for-profit corporation to deny its employees the health coverage of contraceptives to which the employees are otherwise entitled by federal law, based on the religious objections of the corporation's owners.( Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images)  – With President Trump in the White House, religious conservatives hope he will follow through on a campaign promise to make his "first priority" protecting religious liberty. They're gunning for him to sign an executive order that builds on a 1993 law protecting religious freedom. That law, the  Religious Freedom Restoration Act, was enacted in response to a Supreme Court ruling on the First Amendment’s guarantee of the free exercise of religion. Lawmakers passed it to restore a requirement for the government to prove a compelling interest for any law that violates someone’s religious belief. The Supreme Court has said the law can’t be applied to states, but is valid at the federal level, prompting many states to enact their own versions. With a new executive order reported to come as early as Thursday, civil liberties advocates are already bracing for a fight. They are concerned the White House will broaden application of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act so people's religious concerns will always outweigh the government’s interest in preventing discrimination. They argue that could lead to a broad license to discriminate against gays and religious minorities, and would allow employers to deny birth control services in the health care plans offered to workers. As we stand by for details about the Trump administration's plans, here’s a look at the history of the law. April 17, 1990: Supreme Court changes standard for the First Amendment's guarantee of the free exercise of religion. The Supreme Court ruled against two Oregon drug and alcohol counselors who had been fired by a private drug rehabilitation organization for ingesting the hallucinogen peyote as part of a religious ceremony at their Native American church. Ingesting peyote was illegal in Oregon. In a 5-4 decision, the court said the use of peyote was not protected by the First Amendment's guarantee of the free exercise of religion. Justice Antonin Scalia wrote that allowing someone to break a law because of a religious belief "would open the prospect of constitutionally required exemptions from civic obligations of almost every conceivable kind." As a result, governments no longer had to prove a compelling interest for a law that violated someone's religious belief. Instead, the new test became whether the law was religiously neutral and generally applicable. Nov. 16, 1993: President Bill Clinton signs new law. Backed by a broad coalition of religious and civil liberties groups, Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993. Lawmakers said they needed to restore the "compelling interest" test the Supreme Court rejected in its 1990 decision. Introduced by Democrats and passed with a near-unanimous vote, the legislation said a government can "substantially burden" a person's exercise of religion only if it advances an important government interest and does so in the least restrictive way possible. When Clinton signed the bill, he said it "re-establishes a standard that better protects all Americans of all faiths in the exercise of their religion." June 25, 1997: Supreme Court rules the Religious Freedom Restoration Act doesn't apply to states. In a case involving the archbishop of San Antonio's dispute with local zoning authorities over a church expansion, the Supreme Court ruled 6-3 that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act is unconstitutional as applied to states. Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote that Congress lacked the authority to impose the law on states. He also said Congress hadn't shown a record of extensive denials of religious liberty and had acted out of proportion to what it was trying to achieve. Feb. 21, 2006: Supreme Court upholds Religious Freedom Restoration Act at the federal level. In a unanimous decision, the court said a small religious sect could continue to import a hallucinogenic tea used in religious ceremonies. The tea contains a drug prohibited by federal law. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act requires the government to show a compelling interest in banning the organization's use of the drug for religious purposes, and it had not done so. By the time of the ruling, 13 states had passed their own versions of the federal law, in reaction to the court's previous decision that it didn't apply to states. June 30, 2014: Supreme Court upholds religious challenge to Affordable Care Act. A divided Supreme Court ruled that closely held corporations can decide for religious reasons not to include contraception coverage in health insurance plans offered to employees. The five justices in the majority characterized their opinion as a narrow ruling applying to four types of birth control and to the two family-owned corporations that brought the challenge — the Hobby Lobby craft store chain and Conestoga Wood Specialties, a Mennonite-owned cabinet maker. But the four justices who dissented said the ruling expanded the Religious Freedom Restoration Act to protect companies. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the ruling "invites for-profit entities to seek religion-based exemptions from regulations they deem offensive to their faith." She said, for example, that a company could decide that covering vaccinations or paying the minimum wage violates their religious belief. And she noted past religious freedom challenges brought by a restaurant chain that didn't want to serve African- Americans and by a photography studio that didn't want to take pictures at a lesbian couple's commitment ceremony. Kevin Russell, a former Supreme Court law clerk who argues frequently before the high court, wrote in an analysis after the decision that the court has never decided whether the government has the compelling interest required by the Religious Freedom Restoration Act to ban discrimination based on sex, disability or sexual orientation." It seems likely that the debate will have to be settled in further litigation," he wrote. March 26, 2015: Mike Pence signs Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Citing the Supreme Court's decision in the Hobby Lobby case, then- Gov. Mike Pence said Indiana needed its own version of the federal law to "ensure that religious liberty is fully protected under Indiana law." Indiana became the 20th state to enact such a law, setting off the biggest controversy of Pence's political career. Opponents feared it could be used to discriminate against lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people in the name of religion. After the bill's passage sparked a national firestorm, Pence signed a revised version which prevented the law from eroding local human rights protections.2017: President Trump considers religious freedom executive order. A leaked draft version of an executive order directs federal agencies to fully implement the protections of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The draft said the government shouldn’t "substantially burden a person’s or religious organization’s religious exercise" – unless doing so is the least restrictive means of furthering a compelling governmental interest. And a policy cannot be considered “compelling” just because they've been "applied neutrally, broadly, or across the federal government." Civil rights activists say they will challenge the executive order if it is similar to the leaked version. The White House has not announced details of the order or when it will be signed.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308220612/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Sen-Bob-Casey-Trump-administration-sending-yearold-mother-to-possible-deaths/
Sen. Bob Casey: Trump administration sending 5-year-old, mother to possible deaths  Sen. Bob Casey: Trump administration sending 5-year-old, mother to possible deaths Sen. Bob Casey has mounted a campaign to stop the deportation of a mother and her 5-year-old daughter to  Honduras, where he says they will be targeted by gangs. Sen. Bob Casey: Trump administration sending 5-year-old, mother to possible deaths  Sen. Bob Casey has mounted a campaign to stop the deportation of a mother and her 5-year-old daughter to  Honduras, where he says they will be targeted by gangs.  Sen. Bob Casey: Trump administration sending 5-year-old, mother to possible deaths ( Photo: File) Sen. Bob Casey has mounted a campaign to stop the deportation of a mother and her 5-year-old daughter to  Honduras, where he says they will be targeted by gangs. On Wednesday, Casey tweeted a stream of information about the situation and made an appearance on MSNBC. According to tweets, the deportation was in progress on Wednesday afternoon. Twitter: it's urgent. I just found out that a young child & her mother who came to U. S. seeking refuge will be sent back to Honduras today.— Senator Bob Casey (@ Sen Bob Casey) May 3, 2017" This 5yr old and his mother aren't 'bad hombres.' They aren't in a gang, they're running from death- vulnerable and scared ... The child is potentially eligible for Special Immigrant Juvenile Status," tweeted Casey. Casey also claimed that the Department of Homeland Security was aware the mother and child had "had secured paperwork to protect them" and had rushed removal to prevent the protection. David Lapan, deputy assistant secretary for media operations/press secretary for the Department of Homeland Security, told the York Daily Record by email that Fany Manzanares Hernandez was detained on Dec. 18, 2015, one day after unlawfully entering the United States. She was removed on Wednesday "after having exhausted all legal remedies available to her." Those "legal remedies" ran the whole way up to the U. S. Supreme Court, which unanimously denied Manzanares' petition after her case was heard in the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. There was no mention of a child in Lapan's response to the Daily Record  Wednesday night. He said Manzanares was removed without incident and that ICE officials have been in direct contact with Casey's office, providing information as it became available. Casey said that DHS contacts claim that only the Trump administration can stop the deportation.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308088807/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~House-passes-bill-to-fund-government-through-September/
House passes bill to fund government through September  House passes bill to fund government through September The House voted Wednesday to approve a bipartisan deal to fund the government through September and prevent a shutdown — at least for the next five months. House passes bill to fund government through September  The House voted Wednesday to approve a bipartisan deal to fund the government through September and prevent a shutdown — at least for the next five months.  House passes bill to fund government through September Erin Kelly  The House easily passed a $1.1 trillion governmentwide spending bill on Wednesday, awarding wins to both Democrats and Republicans while putting off until later this year fights over President Donald Trump 's promised border wall with Mexico and massive military buildup. ( May 3)  — The House voted Wednesday to approve a bipartisan deal to fund the government through September and prevent a shutdown — at least for the next five months. House members voted 309-118 to pass the $1.1 trillion spending bill, which funds federal agencies and boosts defense spending through the remainder of fiscal year 2017. Current funding was set to expire at midnight Friday unless Congress acted. The Senate is poised to approve the legislation no later than Thursday, and President Trump is expected to sign the bill. Republicans were divided on the bill, with more than 100 of them voting against it. In contrast, fewer than 20 Democrats opposed the bill. The Republican majority had to work with Democrats to get enough votes to pass the bill and avert a shutdown. As a result, both Democrats and Republicans could claim victory for putting some of their spending priorities in the legislation." Every member of this House has a victory somewhere in this bill," said Rep. Tom Cole, R- Okla., who serves on the House Appropriations Committee. " This shows all of us that we have the ability ... to sit down and work together for the good of the country." However, Trump , who was going through the funding process for the first time, was angered by Democrats boasting about how they fought off a White House request for $1.4 billion to begin construction of a wall along the U. S.- Mexico border. Trump tweeted Tuesday that he doesn't want to have to compromise with Democrats in the future and that, " Our country needs a good shutdown in September to fix mess!" Read more: As Congress touts spending deal, Trump calls for shutdown Spending bill excludes border wall, but Trump declares victory anyway Here's what the government spending deal will and won't fund The president made his comments just as Congress is beginning work on spending bills for fiscal year 2018, which will once again require bipartisan agreement." We'll be back here with a stopgap (funding) measure and repeat this same crisis routine," predicted Rep. Alcee Hastings of Florida, the senior Democrat on the House Rules Committee. " Maybe next time we'll skip the grandstanding and start off with a commonsense measure from the get-go." The bill approved by the House on Wednesday includes $15 billion of a $30 billion request from Trump for extra funding for defense programs and combat operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. It also includes $1.5 billion in additional funding for border security, which was half of a $3 billion request from Trump . Although the president did not get funding for his wall, the bill gives the administration about $341 million to replace some existing border fencing, including about 40 miles of fencing in Arizona and California. Congressional negotiators of both parties rejected Trump 's proposal to cut $18 billion from non-defense spending. The bill would reduce funding for the Environmental Protection Agency by about 1% and freeze funding for the Internal Revenue Service. It boosts defense spending by more than $25 billion for the full 2017 fiscal year, which Republicans touted as a major victory. The bill does not include Trump 's proposals to defund Planned Parenthood, hire more Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, or restrict "sanctuary cities" from receiving federal grants. President Trump speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House on May 2, 2017. ( Photo: Jim Lo Scalzo, European Pressphoto Agency) The legislation provides $2 billion in additional funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health. It also includes $100 million more to reduce opioid addiction, more than $130 million in additional funds for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration, and $30 million more for grants to help states fund mental health programs for low-income residents. There also is more than $1 billion for a permanent extension of health insurance benefits for retired union mine workers and their families. The bill also includes nearly $296 million to plug an emergency budget shortfall in Puerto Rico so that the U. S. territory won't run out of Medicaid funding this year. Democrats fought for the provision for the economically struggling territory, which declared bankruptcy Wednesday. Local law enforcement agencies in  New York and Florida would be reimbursed for a total of $68 million for the cost of helping the Secret Service protect Trump and his family when they are at Trump Tower in New York City or at the Mar-a- Lago estate in Florida. The states of California, Louisiana, North Carolina and West Virginia would share more than $8 billion in disaster relief after being hit hard by floods, wildfires and other disasters during the past two years.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308137656/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Sean-Spicer-compares-the-election-to-the-Super-Bowl/
Sean Spicer compares the 2016 election to the Super Bowl  Sean Spicer compares the 2016 election to the Super Bowl Trump spokesman Sean Spicer does what many people do when trying to explain how things work: he talks about sports. Sean Spicer compares the 2016 election to the Super Bowl  Trump spokesman Sean Spicer does what many people do when trying to explain how things work: he talks about sports.  Sean Spicer compares the 2016 election to the Super Bowl Jessica Estepa  White House press secretary Sean Spicer talks to the media during the daily press briefing at the White House, Wednesday, May 3, 2017, in Washington. ( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP) Trump spokesman Sean Spicer does what many people do when trying to explain how things work: he talks about sports. At Wednesday's press briefing, Spicer was asked to comment on Hillary Clinton's statements that she would have won the election had FBI Director James Comey not publicly revealed that he was reopening the probe into her use of a private email server. Spicer's response: " Well, look, I'm a Patriots fan, and if games ended in third quarter, it would have been a different team here last week.*  But you play a game four quarters. You play an election until Election Day. With all due respect to her, you don't get to pick the day the election is on." He added, " It's somewhat sad that we're still debating why the president won in the fashion that he did."* For the non-sports fans among us, in the last Super Bowl, the New England Patriots were trailing the Atlanta Falcons at the end of the third quarter before making a comeback and winning the championship.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308092636/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Oregon-Gov-Kate-Brown-How-Trump-convinced-Democratic-women-to-run-for-office/
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown: How Trump convinced Democratic women to run for office  Oregon Gov. Kate Brown: How Trump convinced Democratic women to run for office Oregon Gov. Kate Brown spoke with Capital Download on Wednesday in Washington, where she was featured at a conference hosted by EMILY's List, a group that boosts Democratic women for public office. Oregon Gov. Kate Brown: How Trump convinced Democratic women to run for office  Oregon Gov. Kate Brown spoke with Capital Download on Wednesday in Washington, where she was featured at a conference hosted by EMILY's List, a group that boosts Democratic women for public office.  Oregon Gov. Kate Brown: How Trump convinced Democratic women to run for office Susan Page  Oregon Gov. Kate Brown credited President Trump with a dramatic increase in the number of Democratic women considering campaign bids.  Oregon Gov. Kate Brown is one of five women currently serving as governors in the United States. Last November, Brown, who is bisexual, also became the first openly LGBT candidate in American history to win election to a governorship. As Oregon’s secretary of state, she had succeeded to the governorship in 2015 when John Kitzhaber resigned. Brown, 56, spoke with Capital Download on Wednesday in Washington, where she was featured at a conference hosted by EMILY's List, a group that boosts Democratic women for public office. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity. Q: In the last election cycle, over almost two years, 920 women contacted EMILY's List about running for office. Since Election Day in November, more than 12,000 have. What’s happening? Brown: In the past, women needed to be asked to run. Men wake up in the morning and decide to run for Congress, and we had to beg women to run for office. So clearly women are seeing an opportunity that they can help move this country forward. They don’t want to go backwards in terms of reproductive rights, in terms of family leave policies, and they realized that they can make a difference, and they can. Q: Is it a reaction specifically to President Trump ’s election? Brown: There was a level of complacency in the progressive community, and that level of complacency is gone. People have realized. I’ve got to get out there. I’ve got to march in the streets. I’ve got to register people to vote. I’ve got to help support organizations that elect progressive candidates, and I need to run for office myself. Q: And a reaction to Hillary Clinton’s defeat? Brown: Absolutely. It was a wake-up call for people around this country that if we really believe in American values, in American principles, we’re going to have to fight for them. Read more: Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers Q: Why do you think Clinton lost? Brown: I think it was multiple factors that cost her the election. Definitely sexism. That’s something that I’ve experienced on the campaign trail. Voters are reluctant to see women in executive offices. That’s why it’s so important that we get more women, younger women, out running for school boards and for state legislatures and for city councils and for mayors, because these are the pipeline that will help us put more women in the governors’ offices and frankly a woman in the White House. Q: Why are the numbers of women in governorships, in Congress, stalled? Brown: There’s absolutely no question that it is very challenging for women to run for office. First of all, women need to be asked, not just once, multiple times. Secondly, women don’t think they’re qualified. Third, they also have a lot on their plates. They’re raising families. They’ve got good jobs. They’re working hard to keep the household going. How can you put running for office on top of all of that? I think a number of women have realized they have to do it now, that they can really make a difference. Q: How much difference does it make to have women in office? Brown: Are you kidding me? I fought for 17 years in the Oregon legislature to pass a bill that required insurance companies to cover contraceptives. If we had had a majority of women in the legislature, I think it would have taken two seconds. Absolutely, it’s huge. When women are at the leadership table, the agendas change. We have conversations about what kind of leave makes sense for families, how do you encourage new parents to take time off of their jobs and stay home with their newborns? That means it has to be paid if we want people to do it. How do we make sure that women have access to the full complement of health care services that we need? How do we make sure there’s no pay discrimination happening in our states? That’s the kind of conversation that women lead when they’re at the table. Q: Trump is expected to sign an executive order on religious freedom that would allow religious institutions to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation. What do you think about it? Brown: It’s deplorable. It’s awful. And it shouldn’t happen in this country. Q: We asked on social media for questions from readers. Here’s one from Joe Palazzolo on Twitter: “ Apart from [ Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth] Warren, whom does she see as the potential women presidential candidates for 2020?" Brown: Amy Klobuchar, Minnesota senator. You’ve got Kirsten Gillibrand from New York. Kamala Harris from California. Q: You were the first woman to be the leader of the state Senate in Oregon, then secretary of state and now governor. Are you interested? Brown: I’m very happy serving the state of Oregon right now. Q: You say Democrats are united, but Democratic leaders have been divided on this: Should abortion rights be a litmus test for Democratic candidates? Brown: I think it’s really important that we welcome a diversity of voices within the Democratic Party tent, but for me reproductive choice is such a crucial human rights issue. I don’t believe that until women have the ability to control our bodies that we can control our lives, and so I see it as essential.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307643534/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Democrats-say-they-must-show-how-tax-cuts-may-put-Social-Security-Medicare-at-risk/
Democrats say they must show how tax cuts may put Social Security, Medicare at risk  Democrats say they must show how tax cuts may put Social Security, Medicare at risk Democrats say they need to do more than cast tax cuts as a giveaway to the rich. Democrats say they must show how tax cuts may put Social Security, Medicare at risk  Democrats say they must show how tax cuts may put Social Security, Medicare at risk Heidi M Przybyla  Time Sen. Sherrod Brown, D- Ohio, speaks to the media after the weekly policy luncheon on Capitol Hill May 2, 2017, in Washington, DC.( Photo: Aaron P. Bernstein, Getty Images)  —  Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown barreled into a regular Capitol Hill luncheon with his fellow Democrats on April 27 fuming and waving a Wall Street Journal opinion editorial calling for funding President Trump ’s proposed tax cuts “the Reagan way,” including gradually raising the Social Security retirement age. For Brown and other Democrats, the column underscored the urgency in shifting decades-long messaging about GOP tax cuts by casting them mainly as a giveaway to the rich. As Senate Democrats draw the battle lines over Trump ’s proposed tax plan, they are borrowing an argument from their predecessors who fought former president Ronald Reagan’s tax cuts 35 years ago — by tying them directly to potential future cuts in Social Security and Medicare for the middle class and poor.“ It took less than 24 hours and they are already trying to raise the retirement age to pay for these corporate handouts,” Brown told his colleagues, according to a source who was in the room but unauthorized to speak on the record. The editorial ran shortly after Trump released his one-page tax plan summary. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer reprised the editorial — and Brown’s comments — in a Tuesday luncheon this week, the source said. Related: President Trump ’s tax plan could slash Trump ’s taxes Aide says Trump tax plan will target Wall Street carried interest deduction Earlier in the day, Schumer had taken to the Senate floor to say the Trump tax plan will intentionally explode the deficit so that “down the line they’ll start howling” and say “oh, we have no choice” but to cut Social Security and Medicare.“ This has been the nefarious goal of the hard right for decades,” said Schumer. A number of congressional Republicans contend that tax cuts should not be counted towards the federal deficit because of “dynamic scoring,” or increased economic growth that yields additional tax revenue. Yet, in a sign of the potential struggles ahead, even Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell has poured cold water on a tax plan that explodes the national debt, saying lawmakers should find offsets to pay for the cuts. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D- NY., left, shakes hands with Sen. Joe Manchin, D- W. Va., right, accompanied by Sen. Sherrod Brown, D- Ohio, while speaking with reporters about the budget on Capitol Hill in Washington May 2, 2017. ( Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP) The comments from both Brown and Schumer resurrect some of the fiery populist language from Democrats, including the late senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, in disputing Reagan’s contention that his 1981 tax cuts favoring the wealthy would pay for themselves. They also signal how Democrats plan to make a play for Trump 's working-class voters, by arguing their  Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits are at risk. Trump has vowed not to touch Medicare and Social Security. Yet the Trump “skinny” budget that proposes deep cuts to U. S. government programs is reminiscent of Reagan’s first budget. Then-budget director David Stockman called the underlying conservative philosophy of dramatic cuts to government programs “starving the beast.” Reagan later struck a deal with Democrats to shore up Social Security. “ The bipartisan Social Security legislation enacted during the Reagan administration provides a useful history lesson for how to offset deficit increases," including raising the age of eligibility for full Social Security benefits from 65 to 67, conservative columnist Martin Feldstein argued in his recent Wall Street Journal editorial. Still, according to Chuck Blahous, a former Social Security and Medicare public trustee, Reagan's 1983 Social Security deal would never had been struck for general deficit reduction and unless Social Security hadn't faced its own deficit. Faced with steep annual deficits, Reagan later signed several measures, including closing some tax loopholes that offset the effects of his prior tax cuts. In a 1985 New York Times article,  Moynihan was still insisting that “the principal purpose of the tax cut was to provide a basis upon which to shrink government.” Read more: On Politics Today: Trump 's 'big' tax plan has few details, no cost estimate Small businesses get hefty tax cut in Trump plan The comments by Brown and Schumer echo a Monday letter Senate Democrats sent to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Mick Mulvaney, Trump ’s budget director, calling the tax cuts a “ Trojan horse” for slashing Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, borrowing another phrase from Moynihan. With the president’s bid to replace the Affordable Care Act faltering, Republicans are turning their gaze to tax reform. The tax cuts could add $5.3 trillion to the national debt in the first decade, according to the non-partisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. They feature a sharp cut in the corporate tax rate, from 35% to 15%, and reducing the number of tax brackets for individual filers from seven to three, with levels of 10%, 25% and 35%." It's an approach that would hammer Social Security and Medicare," said Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee. People would recharacterize income "so they can be eligible for the lower rate," he said. " This is about crumbs for the workers and tax breaks for the well to do." Democrats are beginning to employ some of the lessons their party is processing after steep losses at the state and congressional level in recent election cycles. Mainly, it’s not good enough to rail against tax cuts for the rich because many voters don’t understand why the wealth accumulation of others impacts them and their families. In the letter to Mnuchin and Mulvaney, Democrats argued a 15% tax rate on business income would “undermine Social Security and Medicare directly” because taxpayers who could reclassify their personal income as business income would do so, thereby paying less FICA taxes. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, left, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin look to National Economic Director Gary Cohn as he talks about President Trump 's tax plan in the briefing room of the White House in Washington, D. C., April 26, 2017. ( Photo: Carolyn Kaster, AP) A Democratic Party post mortem circulating on Capitol Hill in March offered a “10-point checklist” for framing the economic case against Trump , with the first bullet being emphasizing “ Trump ’s tax reform plan as an unfair shifting of the tax burden onto the middle class.” Republicans and Democrats who’ve long worked on budgetary issues say the Social Security and Medicare programs need fundamental reforms to remain solvent regardless of what happens with tax reform. Social Security and Medicare alone account for roughly 41% of the federal budget, according to the trustees’ 2016 annual report. " Social Security’s condition is already quite dire," said Pete Sepp, president of the non-partisan National Taxpayers Union. " The insolvency boulder is going to start rolling down the Hill in 2020 without one penny of tax reductions occurring," he said.“ How Democrats talk about Trump ’s tax plan matters; the best way to criticize it is in terms of how it will negatively impact middle-class Americans, not simply in terms of the benefits it will lavish on others.” Priorities USAYet Democrats see a historical connection between the two. Twenty years after Reagan’s tax cut and Social Security deals, former president George W. Bush flirted with partially privatizing Social Security shortly after securing major tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, which Democrats point to as further evidence that the two are directly connected. “ This is what Bush did,” Schumer told USA TODAY . “ They did tax cuts and then they said they had to cut Social Security. Some in the hard right, their ultimate goal is actually to cut Social Security and Medicare, even end it. This is a path for them. We’re going to stop it.” It’s a message Schumer has been pounding the past few days, including in a weekend appearance on Fox News that reaches many of Trump ’s base voters. The messaging is at least in part a reflection of one of the lessons Democrats have learned as many voters, including struggling working-class men and women who supported Trump , rarely make a connection between Democratic fury over “tax cuts for the wealthy” and potential cutbacks in their government benefits.“ How Democrats talk about Trump ’s tax plan matters; the best way to criticize it is in terms of how it will negatively impact middle-class Americans, not simply in terms of the benefits it will lavish on others,” according to the March memo by Priorities USA, the former political action committee associated with 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.“ As Trump seeks to maintain his populist credentials as President, he has perhaps no bigger vulnerability than that tax plan,” the memo said. Jim Manley, a former top adviser to now-retired Senate majority leader Harry Reid, concurred.“ Just railing against tax cuts isn’t enough. You have to point out to people why, in fact, these proposed cuts are so dangerous to their entitlement programs they’ve come to depend on,” Manley said. “ Number two is that many of the people who voted for Trump benefit from these entitlement programs.”   The first quarter gross domestic product grew only 0.7%, the worst quarterly increase in three years. That may strengthen the Trump Administration's argument for a cut to corporate taxes to spur more business investment. The Street's Scott Gamm speaks with Ryan Payne, president of Payne Capital Management.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307986445/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Iowa-may-be-without-individual-health-plans-if-insurer-pulls-out/
Obamacare: Iowa may have no individual health plans  Iowa may be without individual health plans if insurer pulls out Medica cites instability in individual insurance market for reason it may not sell such policies in Iowa. Iowa may be without individual health plans if insurer pulls out  Medica cites instability in individual insurance market for reason it may not sell such policies in Iowa.  Iowa may be without individual health plans if insurer pulls out USA Today Network  Medica, a Minnesota based health insurer, released a statement suggesting it was close to following two larger carriers in deciding not to sell such policies in Iowa for 2018, due to instability in the market.  Wochit In a statement Wednesday, May 3, 2017, Medica, a Minnesota-based health insurer, suggested it was close to deciding not to sell individual health insurance policies in Iowa for 2018.( Photo: vinnstock, Getty Images/i Stockphoto)  DES MOINES — Tens of thousands of individual health policy consumers in Iowa could be left with no health insurance options if the last carrier for most of the state stops selling such policies, as it suggested Wednesday. Medica, a Minnesota-based health insurer, released a statement suggesting it was close to following two larger carriers in deciding not to sell such policies in Iowa for 2018, because of instability in the market.“ Without swift action by the state or Congress to provide stability to Iowa’s individual insurance market, Medica will not be able to serve the citizens of Iowa in the manner and breadth that we do today. We are examining the potential of limited offerings, but our ability to stay in the Iowa insurance market in any capacity is in question at this point,” the company’s statement said. Related: Republicans tweak Obamacare repeal bill to woo moderates Medica’s move comes on the heels of announcements last month that Aetna and Wellmark Blue Cross & Blue Shield are pulling out of Iowa’s individual health insurance market. Those are the only three choices for individual health insurance in most areas of the state this year. The pull-outs would not affect Iowans who obtain insurance via an employer or a government program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. But the carriers’ exit could leave more than 70,000 Iowans who buy their own coverage without any options for 2018. The situation comes as the U. S. House of Representatives wrestles with a bill to replace the Affordable Care Act. This week, Republicans won a few more supporters for their plan by promising to add $8 billion to help those with pre-existing conditions pay for their health care. Iowa’s insurance commissioner has said there is little he can do unless Congress loosens the reins on state authority over rules insurers have to follow. Medica is a relatively small carrier, which faced a daunting prospect in Iowa after Aetna and Wellmark announced they would no longer sell individual health insurance plans here. The two large carriers said they’d lost tens of millions of dollars on the policies, largely because they covered too many older Iowans with chronic health problems and not enough young, healthy people. If Medica remains in the market, it could face the prospect of shouldering all of that risk by itself. Related: Individual insurance plans at risk in more areas with Trump threats The three carriers’ decisions to pull out will affect Iowans who buy individual health insurance either on or off the federal government’s online marketplace. Unless a replacement carrier is found, the change means moderate-income Iowans in most counties would not be able to use Affordable Care Act subsidies to help pay premiums for private insurance. It also means many better-off Iowans who pay their entire premiums without government assistance would lose their individual insurance policies next year. The change won’t affect nearly 77,000 Wellmark customers who bought individual policies that took effect before Jan. 1, 2014. Those insurance pools are relatively stable, because the policies weren’t subject to Affordable Care Act regulations, including the ban on insurers denying coverage to people with pre-existing health problems. The insurance carriers’ decisions to stop selling individual insurance will affect more than 70,000 other Iowans who bought more recent policies from Wellmark, Aetna or Medica. And the decisions could mean that other Iowans won’t have options for new health insurance next year if they lose jobs that offer coverage, age out of their parents’ policies or become divorced from a spouse who has an employer-provided plan. Insurers have complained that the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, put them in a difficult spot. The 2010 law bars insurers from denying coverage to people with pre-existing health problems. It also requires most Americans to obtain coverage or pay a penalty, but insurance industry leaders say that requirement has not been strictly enforced. Related: Health insurers eye steep increases as enrollment period nears The result is too many young, healthy people are staying out of the pool, leaving insurers to cover mostly older, unhealthy people, the carriers say. Wellmark’s leader said last month that the problem probably will get worse because President Trump has told his administrators to stop enforcing the coverage requirement. Iowa Insurance Commissioner Doug Ommen, who was recently appointed by Republican Gov. Terry Branstad, has said he understands the companies’ position. After Aetna announced its decision April 6, Ommen said his office was hamstrung by the Affordable Care Act in how it can respond. Related: Aetna- Humana $37 B merger blocked over fear it would harm consumers“ Without congressional action, we’re very limited in what we can do,” he said. “ This is a federally created situation, and we need a federally created solution.” A fourth carrier, Gundersen Health Plan, currently offers individual health insurance in five counties in northeast Iowa. That company, which is based in Wisconsin, accounts for a sliver of the Iowa market. A spokesman said this week that the company hasn’t decided whether to continue offering those plans for next year. Contributing: Deirdre Shesgreen, USA TODAY . Follow Tony Leys on Twitter: @tonyleys
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308006750/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Meeting-Palestinian-leader-Abbas-Trump-hopes-for-terrific-peace-deal-in-Middle-East/
Meeting Palestinian leader Abbas, Trump hopes for 'terrific' peace deal in Middle East  Meeting Palestinian leader Abbas, Trump hopes for 'terrific' peace deal in Middle East Trump welcomed the leader of the Palestinian Authority to the White House by pledging to accomplish something that many previous U. S. administrations have tried but never achieved: A peace agreement between the Palestinians and Israelis. Meeting Palestinian leader Abbas, Trump hopes for 'terrific' peace deal in Middle East  Trump welcomed the leader of the Palestinian Authority to the White House by pledging to accomplish something that many previous U. S. administrations have tried but never achieved: A peace agreement between the Palestinians and Israelis.  Meeting Palestinian leader Abbas, Trump hopes for 'terrific' peace deal in Middle East David Jackson  Published 1:20 p.m. ET May 3, 2017 | Updated 11 hours ago President Trump and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas.( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP)  – President Trump welcomed the leader of the Palestinian Authority to the White House on Wednesday by pledging to accomplish something that many previous U. S. administrations have tried but never achieved: A lasting peace agreement between the Palestinians and Israelis." We want to create peace between Israel and the Palestinians," Trump said during a series of meetings with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian  Authority. " We will get it done. We will be working so hard to get it done." Memo to Trump : Why ending Israeli- Palestinian conflict is really hard In an earlier photo opportunity, Trump acknowledged that the conflict has been going on for a "long time." Still, he said, "hopefully something terrific can come out" of future talks between the Palestinians and Israelis. Those talks are not yet scheduled, and it remains unclear whether the U. S. would broker them. Trump has assigned his son-in-law Jared Kushner to work on a Middle East peace deal. He's also appointed real estate attorney Jason Greenblatt as Middle East envoy. Underscoring the inherent difficulties of forging a peace agreement, Abbas told reporters that "it's about time for Israel to end its occupation of our people and of our land after 50 years." Abbas also praised Trump for what he called his "great negotiating ability," adding, " With you, we have hope." Israel, meanwhile, has protested attacks by the Palestinians and calls from Hamas, the militant group ruling the Gaza Strip, for the destruction of Israel. Earlier this week, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu questioned Abbas's motivations. " How can you talk about peace and fund terrorism?” he said, calling on his Palestinian counterpart to "fund peace, not murder" and cancel payments to families of Palestinians imprisoned in Israeli jails. Netanyahu visited the White House in February. Now that he's met with both leaders, Trump said he is ready to "start a process" that could lead to a peace deal. " It is a great honor to have the president with us," Trump said of Abbas. Aaron David Miller, a former State Department negotiator now with the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, D. C., said the prospects of a deal hinge less on Trump  than on  Israelis and Palestinians "who are unable and unwilling to make the decisions on the core issues that would lead to sustainable agreement." So, as  Miller says, Trump may want to lower his expectations accordingly. " Never in decades of working the Arab- Israeli negotiations for Republican and Democratic administrations have I seen a president more confident – with less prospect of success." In his first face-to-face meeting with the Palestinian leader – the two have spoken by phone – Trump said he would call on Abbas to abide by Netanyahu's request to end the payments to families of Palestinians imprisoned in Israeli jails, and demand that Palestinian leaders speak out in a "unified voice" against anti- Semitic threats and incitement of violence voiced by some of their constituents and media outlets." There's such hatred," Trump said, referring to those incitements. " But, hopefully, there won't be such hatred for very long." Trump also called on the Palestinian Authority to help fight the extremist group known as the Islamic State. The two leaders also discussed possible ways to improve the Palestinian economy, said White House spokesman Sean Spicer. Another obstacle to a peace agreement surfaced during Trump 's White House meeting with Netanyahu on Feb. 15:  Israeli settlements on land in dispute with the Palestinians.  " I’d like to see you hold back on settlements for a little bit,” Trump told Netanyahu, even though the Israeli leader said he doesn't see settlements as the "core of the problem." On Wednesday, with Abbas at his side, Trump said he is willing to be a "mediator," "arbitrator," or "facilitator" – if that's what it takes to "get this done." It's clear Trump sees his deal-making skills as central to the negotiating process. At one point, he expressed optimism that striking a peace deal may not be "as difficult as people have thought over the years." Even so, he also acknowledged getting both sides to agree on a peace plan could be an uphill climb." Over the course of my lifetime, I've always heard that perhaps the toughest deal to make is the deal between the Israelis and the Palestinians," Trump said. " Let's see if we can prove them wrong, OK?"
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307980590/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Heres-what-the-FBIs-James-Comey-said-about-Clintons-emails-Russia-and-WikiLeaks/
James Comey testifies on Hillary Clinton, Russia and Wiki Leaks  Here's what the FBI's James Comey said about Clinton's emails, Russia and Wiki Leaks FBI Director James Comey on Wednesday answered senators' questions about the probe into Hillary Clinton's emails, Russia and Wikileaks. Here's what the FBI's James Comey said about Clinton's emails, Russia and Wiki Leaks  FBI Director James Comey on Wednesday answered senators' questions about the probe into Hillary Clinton's emails, Russia and Wikileaks.  Here's what the FBI's James Comey said about Clinton's emails, Russia and Wiki Leaks Jessica Estepa  FBI Director James Comey is maintaining that he did not treat disclosures about investigations into Hillary Clinton's emails and potential connections between the Trump campaign and Russia differently. ( May 3)  APFBI Director James Comey on Wednesday answered senators' questions about the probe into Hillary Clinton's emails, Russia and Wikileaks. Here are some key quotes from his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee. On the timing of his announcement " I could see two doors, and they were both actions: One was labeled 'speak,' the other was labeled 'conceal,'" Comey said of his decision to inform lawmakers in late October about possible new evidence in the probe of  Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server when she was secretary of State." Because here's how I thought about it... Having repeatedly told this Congress that we're done and there's nothing there, there's no case there, to restart, in a hugely significant way, potentially finding the emails that would reflect on her intent from the beginning, and not speak about it would require an act of concealment, in my view." And so I stared at 'speak' and 'conceal.' ' Speak' would be really bad, there's an election in 11 days. Lordy, that would be really bad. ' Concealing,' in my view, would be catastrophic. Not just to the FBI, but well beyond. And honestly, as between 'really bad' and 'catastrophic,' I said to my team, ' We've gotta walk into the world of really bad." On how he felt afterward" Look, this is terrible," he said of the email revelation. " It makes me feel mildly nauseous that we might have had some impact on the election. But honestly, it wouldn't change the decision. Everybody who disagrees with me has to come back to Oct. 28 with me and stare at this and tell me what you would do." On the hacking of the Democratic National Committee" We have high confidence that the Russians did the hacking of the DNC and other organizations," he said, referencing the release of thousands of emails from the Democratic organization and its key staffers. On why he talked about the Clinton email investigation but didn't talk about the probe into Trump and Russia" I think I treated both investigations consistently, under the same principles," he said, saying that the Trump investigation was still in its early stages. " People forget, we would not confirm the existence of the Hillary Clinton email investigation until three months after it began." On whether Russia is still involved in American politics" Yes," he said, answering a question from Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- S. C.  Also, when it comes to preserving the democratic process free from foreign interference, he said  Russia is "the greatest threat to any nation on earth, given their intention and their ability." On Wiki Leaks" To my mind, it crosses a line when it moves from being about trying to educate a public and instead just becomes about intelligence porn, frankly," he said, criticizing the antisecrecy organization's release of the classified information and private information that had been stolen by hackers. " Just pushing out information about sources and methods without regard to interest, without regard to the First Amendment values that normally underlie press reporting and simply becomes a conduit for the Russian intelligence services or some other adversaries of the United States, just to push out information that damages the United States."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307997782/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Obama-unveils-design-vision-for-future-presidential-library/
Obama unveils design, vision for future presidential library  Obama unveils design, vision for future presidential library The $500 million project is scheduled to open in 2021. Obama unveils design, vision for future presidential library  Obama unveils design, vision for future presidential library Aamer Madhani  Former President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama unveiled the design plans for the Obama Presidential Center. Veuer's Nick Cardona (@nickcardona93) has that story.  Buzz60 The Obama Foundation on Wednesday released renderings of the future presidential library and museum in Chicago.( Photo: Obama Foundation)  CHICAGO — Former president Barack Obama on Wednesday unveiled the conceptual design of his future presidential library and museum in the city's historic Jackson Park — and laid out his vision for using the center to transform a swath of Chicago that's been disproportionately impacted by crime and poverty. The design envisions three buildings — a museum, forum and library — surrounded by a public plaza in the city park designed by  Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux on Chicago's South Side. The museum, the tallest of the three buildings, will hold exhibition space, public spaces, offices and education and meeting rooms, according to the Obama Foundation. The forum and library buildings are intended to be used for study and foundation programming. Obama said his foundation, which is overseeing the project, is also looking into the possibility of locating a Chicago Public Library branch on the site." If you ask a lot of people outside of Chicago, about Chicago, what's the first thing they talk about? They talk about the violence," Obama said at a forum to unveil the plans. " Jackson Park feels different than Lincoln Park or Millennium Park," added Obama, referring to the downtown and North Side parks in more affluent areas of the city. " It's not as good as it could be." The plan calls for the museum to anchor the northern end of the plaza on the sprawling campus of the presidential center, while the roofs of the library and forum buildings are to be covered with plantings to create new park land.  The total size of the center is estimated to range 200,000 to 225,000 square feet. Obama said he envisions adding a sledding hill to the park — something he said his wife said she always wanted when she was growing up on the South SIde — as well as play lots and paddle boats for the lagoon in the park. Obama also said he hopes the presidential center will become a hub for artists like Bruce Springsteen, Chance the Rapper and Spike Lee to use to teach young people about music and film." What we want this to be is the world premiere institution for training young people in leadership to (help them) make a difference in their communities, in their country and in their world,” he said. Obama traveled to Chicago to hold a forum about the plans and unveiled the renderings of the presidential center campus, designed by husband-and-wife architects Tod Williams and Billie  Tsien and estimated to cost $500 million.  The museum is expected to be completed by 2021. Construction of the Obama presidential library, like the nation’s 13 other presidential libraries, will be paid through private donations. Upkeep of the libraries are funded by American taxpayers. This rendering shows the conceptual design of the Obama Presidential Center campus. The Obama Foundation says at the heart of the center is a public plaza. ( Photo: Obama Foundation) The Obamas, who continue to live in Washington while their younger daughter finishes high school, chose to unveil the plans in the city’s South Shore neighborhood, the once working-class neighborhood where the former first lady was raised and that more recently has been beset by the scourge of gun violence that has overwhelmed the city for the last 16 months. The city has tallied more than 950 murders since the beginning of 2016 , with the bulk of the killings in predominantly African- American and Latino neighborhoods on the city's South and West sides. In late March, seven people were murdered over a 12-hour period within blocks of each other in South Shore, including a 27-year-old man and 23-year-old woman who were fatally shot as they drove near the venue where the Obamas held the announcement. Obama spoke directly to the violence impacting the city and the need for the presidential center to begin engaging in the community before construction is completed. To that end, Obama said that he and his wife will donate $2 million help fund the Chicago summer jobs program, a youth program that aims to provide job training and summer work for at-risk youth." We don't want to wait for a building," Obama said. Former president Barack Obama speaks at a community event on the Presidential Center at the South Shore Cultural Center on May 3, 2017, in Chicago. ( Photo: Nam Y. Huh, AP) The northern edge of the South Shore neighborhood abuts Jackson Park. Tiger Woods is also set to design a golf course to replace the current course in the city park, leading to hopes for revitalization of the area as well as concerns from some in the community that gentrification of the neighborhood may be inevitable. The University of Chicago, which the Obamas picked to host the library, predicts that project will have a $220 million annual impact for the city and could create nearly 2,000 permanent jobs. About 800,000 visitors annually are expected to visit the library and museum celebrating the nation’s first African- American president, according to the university’s projections. Read more: It's official: Obama picks Chicago to host presidential library Race, class emerge as issues in Obama library battle Obama delivers first speech post-presidency, without ever saying ' Donald Trump ' In rolling out plans for the presidential center, the former president has said he wants the presidential center to be more than an archive or museum, but also an incubator to affect change." It's about more than buildings or jobs or contracts," Obama said. " It's about hope. It's about belief. It's about a story that our kids tell themselves." Follow USA TODAY Chicago correspondent  Aamer Madhani on Twitter: @ Aamer ISmad
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307980592/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Survey-American-publics-trust-in-government-near-historic-low/
Survey: American public's trust in government near historic low  Survey: American public's trust in government near historic low Additionally, 68% said they trusted the government to do what was right some of the time, and 11% said they never trusted the government. Survey: American public's trust in government near historic low  Additionally, 68% said they trusted the government to do what was right some of the time, and 11% said they never trusted the government.  Survey: American public's trust in government near historic low Jessica Estepa  A new Gallup poll shows that most people don’t think Trump has made progress at changing Washington after his first 100 days. Jose Sepulveda(@josesepulvedatv) has more.  Buzz60 Only two in 10 Americans say they trust the government in Washington, according to a new survey out Wednesday. The Pew Research Center found that only 4% of Americans said they believed the government will do what is right "just about always," while another 16% said they thought the government will act in good faith "most of the time." The report comes a little more than three months into the Trump administration and four months into the 115th Congress, both of which have seen low approval ratings among the public, per other reports. Some 68% said they trusted the government to do what was right some of the time, and 11% said they never trusted the government. Notably, no more than 30% have said they trusted the government in the past decade, starting during President George W. Bush's administration and continuing through President Obama's time in office. This is the longest period of low trust in the government since different groups started asking the question since 1958. Other times of low trust in government came during Bill Clinton's presidency in the mid-1990s. Republicans (28%) were more likely to trust the government than Democrats (15%), for the first time since George W. Bush's presidency, according to the survey. Republicans' trust in the government has climbed 17 points since October 2015, while Democrats' trust fell by 11 points in that same timeframe. The survey also found that a majority of Americans (55%) said they are frustrated at the federal government, while 22% said they were angry at the government and 19% said they were content. Still, despite the trust and frustration levels, a majority of Americans (41%) said they were optimistic about the future of the United States. Another 30% said they had some confidence in the country's future, while 28% said they had no confidence at all. The survey was conducted from April 5 to 11 among 1,501 adults. Read the full report here. Read: People trust science. So why don't they believe it?
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/307596818/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~FBI-Director-James-Comey-mildly-nauseous-Clinton-email-probe-decisions-may-have-impacted-election/
FBI Director James Comey 'mildly nauseous' Clinton email probe decisions may have impacted election  FBI Director James Comey 'mildly nauseous' Clinton email probe decisions may have impacted election FBI Director James Comey staunchly defended his decision to publicly announce the reopening of the probe into Hillary Clinton's private email server 11 days before the November election, telling a Senate panel on Wednesday it would have been the "death of the FBI as an institution in America" had he remained silent about possible new evidence. FBI Director James Comey 'mildly nauseous' Clinton email probe decisions may have impacted election  FBI Director James Comey staunchly defended his decision to publicly announce the reopening of the probe into Hillary Clinton's private email server 11 days before the November election, telling a Senate panel on Wednesday it would have been the "death of the FBI as an institution in America" had he remained silent about possible new evidence.  FBI Director James Comey 'mildly nauseous' Clinton email probe decisions may have impacted election Kevin Johnson  The stage is set for another dramatic showdown between FBI Director James Comey and Congress as he returns to Capitol Hill. Nathan Rousseau Smith (@fantasticmrnate) gives us the details.  Buzz60 FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director Michael Rogers in Capitol Hill on March 20, 2017.( Photo: Drew Angerer, Getty Images)  –   FBI Director James Comey staunchly defended his decision to publicly announce the reopening of the probe into Hillary Clinton's private email server 11 days before the November election, telling a Senate panel on Wednesday it would have been the "death of the FBI as an institution in America" had he remained silent about possible new evidence. Still, Comey acknowledged the possible repercussions of such a move. " It makes me mildly nauseous that we would have had an impact on the election," Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee in his most detailed explanation yet of his controversial October action.   FBI Director James Comey defends his decision to alert Congress that agents were revisiting the Hillary Clinton email investigation less than 2 weeks before the election. ( May 3)  APComey said he had no choice but to inform lawmakers about the investigation’s developments in late October, after he learned thousands of Clinton emails had been recovered from a laptop used by former New York Rep. Anthony Weiner, the husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. He recalled the decision as a personal struggle to either "conceal or speak'' about the rapidly unfolding developments so close to the election." We had to walk into a world of really bad,'' Comey said. " I could not see a door labeled, ' No action needed.'"  He declined to respond to repeated questions from senators about whether former Attorney General Loretta Lynch had sought to provide cover for Clinton during the bureau's investigation. Nevertheless, the director acknowledged that he "worried'' about the Justice Department's credibility to resolve the inquiry after Lynch's impromptu June meeting with former President Bill Clinton when their planes were parked nearby at the Phoenix's Sky Harbor  International Airport. So, Comey said he took it upon himself to first publicly announce the outcome of the FBI's inquiry in July and then re-open it in October.  " Her meeting with President Clinton on that airplane was the capper for me, '' Comey said. Still, the director added, " I wouldn't have done anything differently. I don't have any regrets.'' Clinton has blamed Comey as recently as Tuesday for torpedoing her campaign as the Democratic presidential nominee. The FBI ultimately cleared Clinton of any wrongdoing on the weekend before the election. Judiciary Committee Democrats, including Delaware Sen. Chris Coons, contended that the director had applied a double standard by making public remarks about the Clinton inquiry but not acknowledging the FBI's inquiry into possible collusion between associates of President Donald Trump 's campaign and Russian officials, which had begun in July. But Comey asserted that he handled the investigations with equal care, adding that the Trump campaign probe, a classified counter-intelligence inquiry, was still in its early stages at the time he announced the closing of the Clinton inquiry in July, re-opened it in October and closed it again without charges in the days before the election. Yet Iowa Sen. Charles Grassley, the Republican chairman of the committee, said that "a cloud of doubt hangs over the FBI" even as it pursues allegations of possible collusion. Grassley called into question the very basis of the inquiry, saying that agency had provided him "inconsistent information" about the probe." Where is all the speculation about [ Russian] collusion coming from?'' Grassley asked. " For the good of the country, the FBI needs to get to the truth soon. But we can't wait until this is over to ask the hard questions.'' Comey, in his first public testimony since acknowledging the Russia inquiry to another congressional panel in March, declined to name the targets of the inquiry and specifically refused to address whether Trump was a subject of it." We will follow the evidence wherever it leads,'' the director said. The U. S. intelligence community has blamed Moscow for orchestrating a campaign to hack Democratic political organizations and release stolen information to undermine faith in the democratic process and candidate Hillary Clinton's campaign. The FBI's investigation of the hack subsequently expanded to included possible "coordination" involving Trump associates, but Comey has declined to elaborate on whether any such evidence has been uncovered. On Wednesday, Comey said Russia's cyberwarfare capacity presented the "greatest threat of any nation on earth."" Is it fair to say that the Russian government is still involved in American politics?'' Sen. Lindsey Graham, R- S. C., asked." Yes," Comey said. At the March hearing, Comey said that the Russians appeared to use a third party — what he called a "cutout" — in its communications with Wiki Leaks, which published internal communications obtained in the hack of the DNC.  The identity of the third party was not disclosed. Also in his last Capitol Hill appearance, before the House Intelligence Committee, Comey also delivered a definitive repudiation of Trump 's claims that the Obama administration had wiretapped the president's New York offices in advance of the 2016 elections . " The FBI and the Justice Department have no information to support'' the president's assertions, Comey said during the more than five-hour session. Since then, at least two former Trump advisers – Michael Flynn and Carter Page – have been the subjects of fresh scrutiny about their Russian ties. Flynn, who was fired as Trump ’s national security adviser, is now under investigation by the Pentagon Inspector General for failing to inform Defense Department officials about seeking payments from foreign governments. In February, Flynn registered retroactively as a foreign agent. He disclosed that he had earned $530,000 from a Dutch firm with ties to Turkey’s government. Documents released by Rep. Elijah Cummings, the Maryland Democrat and ranking member of the Oversight Committee, also show that Flynn took more than $33,000 from the Kremlin-backed RT television network for a 2015 speech in Moscow. Russian President Vladimir Putin also attended the event. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R- Utah, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, last week called on the Army to determine if Flynn had violated the law and should be required to repay the government. Flynn, "by all appearances," violated federal law by accepting payments from foreign governments without obtaining prior approval, Chaffetz said. Last month, the Washington Post also disclosed that the FBI had obtained a secret court order last summer to monitor the communications of Page, an adviser to then-candidate Trump , because the government had reason to believe Page was acting as a Russian agent. Page has denied any wrongdoing and Flynn has sought immunity from any possible prosecution.  Both the House and Senate Intelligence committees, in the midst of continuing Russia probes, have indicated that it is too early in their investigations to cut a deal for Flynn's testimony. Separately, preliminary discussions about Flynn's prospects for immunity in the FBI investigation also have yielded no agreement.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309390001/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~ Judge-wont-block- Iowa-law-on-day-wait-for-abortions/
 Iowa law on 3-day wait for abortions won't be blocked in court Judge won't block Iowa law on 3-day wait for abortions Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad is scheduled to sign Senate File 471 at 8:30 a.m. CT Friday, and the abortion restrictions are set to take effect immediately. Judge won't block Iowa law on 3-day wait for abortions  Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad is scheduled to sign Senate File 471 at 8:30 a.m. CT Friday, and the abortion restrictions are set to take effect immediately.  Rita Bettis of ACLU- Iowa and Suzanna de Baca discuss lawsuit aimed at blocking 72-hour wait for abortions  William Petroski/ The Register Children's shoes were on display March 30, 2017, during an anti-abortion rally in the rotunda of the Iowa Capitol in Des Moines to symbolize lives lost to abortion.( Photo: Kelsey Kremer, The Des Moines Register) CONNECTTWEETLINKEDIN DES MOINES — A Polk County District Court judge denied a request Thursday for an emergency order aimed at blocking Iowa officials from enforcing a new law that will require a 72-hour waiting period for abortions at any stage of pregnancy. Planned Parenthood of the Heartland sought the temporary injunction before Judge Jeffrey Farrell here. Gov. Terry Branstad is scheduled to sign Senate File 471 at 8:30 a.m. CT Friday, and the abortion restrictions are set to take effect immediately.  Farrell announced his decision to reject the plaintiffs' motion after a hearing in which lawyers for Planned Parenthood and the Iowa Attorney General's Office offered arguments. He said the petitioners faced a high standard in making their case that the three-day waiting period is unconstitutional and creates an undue burden on Iowa women seeking an abortion." I just don’t think that at this time that I can find a likelihood of success on the merits," Farrell said.► Related: Tennessee lawmakers pass 20-week abortion ban The Iowa judge cited a 1992 U. S. Supreme Court decision in a Pennsylvania case that considered a 24-hour waiting period for abortions. The high court concluded that the state may enact regulations to further the health or safety of a woman seeking an abortion. The court accepted that a waiting period may impose some burden but did not find it presented an undue burden. The case now will move to a court trial that will proceed as soon as possible to consider the evidence, Farrell said.“ That is the goal, … that more time can be a good thing (to prevent an abortion).” Jeffrey Thompson, Iowa solicitor general Planned Parenthood lawyer Alice Clapman said an appeal of Farrell's ruling will be filed with the Iowa Supreme Court, probably Friday morning.  Branstad and the Iowa Board of Medicine are defendants in the lawsuit. State Solicitor General Jeffrey Thompson, who represented the state, said the request for a temporary injunction was an "extraordinary remedy" that was not justified for legal and factual reasons. Abortion is not like any other medical procedure and courts have concluded women have no right to "abortion on demand," Thompson said. He suggested that many patients of Planned Parenthood already face waits for abortions for scheduling reasons and he noted that the organization does not provide abortions every day for business reasons. Thompson also pointed out that when patients are uncertain whether to proceed with an abortion, Planned Parenthiood advises them to take more time." That is the goal, … that more time can be a good thing," he said.► April: Kentucky's last remaining abortion clinic won't close ... for now► March: Iowa Republicans reverse course on 'fetal heartbeat' abortion bill Planned Parenthood lawyer Clapman said provisions of the new state law violate the Iowa Constitution, citing a lack of due process and equal protection rights. In addition to a 72-hour waiting period, the law will require women to make two trips to a doctor to obtain an abortion. The women most affected because of the requirements are low-income, victims of sexual assault or domestic abuse, those with a diagnosis of a severe fetal anomaly and those with conditions that threaten their health but don't meet the new law's narrow medical emergency exceptions, Clapman said.“( Such laws) make women feel afraid and powerless.” Alice Clapman, Planned Parenthood lawyer Such laws "make women feel afraid and powerless," she told the court. The lawsuit said the new law will impose a medically unnecessary and mandatory delay on women seeking abortions in Iowa that pose immediate and serious medical risks. Planned Parenthood said it has 44 abortion patients scheduled in Iowa for Friday, including 33 medication abortion patients. It also has 11 medication abortion patients scheduled for Tuesday and 28 abortion patients scheduled for Wednesday, including 19 medication abortion patients. The plaintiffs described the Iowa law as imposing one of the strictest requirements in the nation on women seeking an abortion. South Dakota and Missouri are the only states with similar requirements. The lawsuit said Planned Parenthood already performs an ultrasound on a woman seeking an abortion and ensures that she receives all information necessary to make a fully informed and voluntary decision to confirm she is firmly decided before having an abortion.► March: Abortion pill reversal: 2nd chance or just chance?► March: Women wear ' Handmaid's Tale' robes in Texas Senate No similar two-trip or mandatory delay requirement is imposed on Iowa women or men seeking any other medical procedure. The legislation offers women no benefits, will severely and abruptly burden their access to abortion and likely will prevent some women from obtaining an abortion, the plaintiffs contend. Doctors who violate the mandatory delay and additional trip requirements are subject to state disciplinary actions. The legislation also imposes a ban on most abortions in Iowa after 20 weeks although that provision was not a focus of the request for an injunction. The bill will allow an abortion after 20 weeks if doctors determine it's necessary to preserve the life or health of the mother. But the legislation does not include exemptions for pregnancies resulting from rape or incest, or for pregnancies in which a genetic anomaly makes life after birth impossible. Supporters of the anti-abortion legislation during the 2017 session included the Iowa Catholic Conference and the Iowa Right to Life Committee. Twenty-seven other states have some kind of waiting period, though most are only a single-day restriction.  GOP state Sen. Mark Costello of Imogene, Iowa, who was floor manager of the Senate bill, said he doesn't doubt that many women may have made up their minds to obtain an abortion. But he believes the three-day waiting period will provide an opportunity for some women who aren't sure about their decisions to change their minds.► January: N. Y. to expand access to free abortion, contraception► January: ACLU files suit to block Kentucky abortion law passed in 4 days The legislation will require a woman seeking an abortion to undergo ultrasound imaging and provides that the woman be given an opportunity to see an image of the fetus. In addition, the bill requires that a woman be given an option of hearing a description of the unborn child based on the ultrasound image and hearing the heartbeat of the unborn child. Planned Parenthood is Iowa's largest abortion provider, overseeing more than 2,100 medication abortions and more than 1,200 surgical abortions between April 1, 2016 , and March 31, 2017. The nonprofit agency provides medication and surgical abortions at facilities in Des Moines and Iowa City, and medication abortion at health centers in Ames, Burlington, Cedar Rapids, Council Bluffs, Bettendorf and Sioux City.► November: The abortion rate hasn't been this low since before ' Roe v. Wade'► October: Poles protested an abortion law — and it worked Even with Planned Parenthood's telemedicine program, 89% of Iowa counties lacked an abortion provider and 42% of women lived in these counties as of 2014, according to the lawsuit. The plaintiffs said about 1 in 3 women in the United States will have an abortion by age 45, the plaintiffs said. Fifty-nine percent are mothers who have decided they cannot be a parent again at the time and 66% plan to have children when they are older or in a supportive relationship so that their children will have two parents.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309488646/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-holds-a-makeup-meeting-with-Australia-leader-Malcolm-Turnbull/
 Trump holds a make-up meeting with Australia leader Malcolm Turnbull  Trump holds a make-up meeting with Australia leader Malcolm Turnbull President Trump had contentious phone call with Malcolm Turnbull in January Trump holds a make-up meeting with Australia leader Malcolm Turnbull  Trump holds a make-up meeting with Australia leader Malcolm Turnbull David Jackson  Published 6:28 p.m. ET May 4, 2017 | Updated 4 minutes ago President Trump on Jan. 28, 2017, and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Nov. 20, 2016 .( Photo: Alex Brandon and Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP)  –  Four months after a contentious phone call, President Trump sought Thursday to smooth relations with the leader of Australia by celebrating a major U. S.- Australian naval milestone in World War II." We've been allies for 99 years," Trump told reporters after meeting with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. " Can you imagine that? 99 years. And never a bad time." Trump and Turnbull met in New York City for about 30 minutes ahead of a gala honoring the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea. In the early days of World War II, the U. S. and Australia faced off with Japan's navy in a historic aircraft carrier battle in the Pacific Ocean." That was some battle," Trump said. " That was a very important battle for both of us." Earlier in the day, Trump delayed his trip to New York and his meeting with Turnbull to await the results of a vote in the U. S. House to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. The Trump - Turnbull sit-down comes just a few months after their reported acrimonious conversation of Jan. 28, a phone call that was subsequently parodied on Saturday Night Live. Little more than a week after becoming president, Trump  protested a refugee agreement Turnbull made with President Obama's administration. Under the deal — which the Trump administration has since said it would honor — the United States committed to resettling some 1,250 mostly Muslim refugees who have been housed in immigration camps on the Pacific island nations of Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Trump , who during the campaign pledged new restrictions on refugees entering the United States, reportedly told Turnbull that he was "going to get killed" politically over the Australian deal. It was a calmer scene Thursday as Trump and Turnbull met at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, site of the Coral Sea gala. Trump disputed the idea that he had a testy phone call with Trumbull, telling reporters: " We get along great.  We have a fantastic relationship, I love Australia, I always have." Turnbull said Australia and the United States have always been close: " We are always more assured of winning when we are fighting together." In addition to refugees, the leaders were expected to discuss the North Korean nuclear and global security generally.  Australia is a key member of the Five Eyes intelligence alliance, along with the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom." I think that you can expect a strengthening out of an already strong ally, and furthered continued great relationship that we have with them," said White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders. In commemorating the Battle of the Coral Sea, the United States and Australia are saluting the emergence of a new kind of naval warfare that took place less than six months after Pearl Harbor." At the Battle of the Coral Sea, a complex action stretching across hundreds of sea miles and five days, from May 3 to 8, 1942, the two sides made naval history, as all the fighting was conducted by carrier-based aircraft," historian David M. Kennedy wrote in Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945." Separated by 175 miles of ocean, the warships neither directly fired upon nor even actually sighted one another," Kennedy said. Both sides publicly claimed success in the battle that preceded the more decisive U. S. victory at Midway one month later.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309349735/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trumps-religious-freedom-order-doesnt-change-law-on-political-activity/
 Trump 's Johnson Amendment executive order will have little effect  Trump 's religious freedom order doesn't change law on political activity President Trump campaigned on a promise to repeal the so-called Johnson Amendment, a 1954 law that prohibits charities — including churches — from getting involved in political campaigns. Trump 's religious freedom order doesn't change law on political activity  President Trump campaigned on a promise to repeal the so-called Johnson Amendment, a 1954 law that prohibits charities — including churches — from getting involved in political campaigns. Trump 's religious freedom order doesn't change law on political activity Gregory Korte and  Published 8:07 p.m. ET May 4, 2017 | Updated 2 hours ago President Trump gestures in the Rose Garden on Thursday, before signing an executive order aimed at easing an IRS rule limiting political activity for churches.( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) CONNECTTWEETLINKEDIN — President Trump 's executive order on religious freedom maintains the long-established restrictions on political activity by churches, despite a promise in February to "totally destroy" the law known as the Johnson Amendment. Promising that the order would "prevent the Johnson Amendment from interfering with your First Amendment rights,"  Trump signed the executive order in a grand Rose Garden ceremony, where he was surrounded by activists, faith leaders and nuns from the Little Sisters of the Poor — all serenaded by a string quartet. But when the White House released the text of the executive order two hours later, it largely maintained the status quo." The (executive order) does not really resolve anything with respect to the Johnson Amendment," said Lloyd Mayer, who teaches nonprofit and election law at Notre Dame law school. " The Johnson Amendment is still law." Liberal groups preparing to sue over the order said there was no need. The American Civil Liberties Union called the order "an elaborate photo-op with no discernible policy outcome." Public Citizen said it was "a sham because what it actually does is instruct the IRS to enforce the law as written." And even conservative groups couldn't hide their disappointment." Though we appreciate the spirit of today’s gesture, vague instructions to federal agencies simply leaves them wiggle room to ignore that gesture, regardless of the spirit in which it was intended," said a statement from  Michael Farris, president of Alliance Defending Freedom. He said he still hopes that Trump would fulfill his campaign promise. " Regrettably, this executive order leaves that promise as yet unfulfilled," he said. Since it was first adopted in 1954, the Johnson Amendment prohibits charities and churches from "directly or indirectly participating in, or intervening in, any political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for elective public office." Groups that violate the amendment could be faced with revocation of their tax-exempt status. In stilted legalese, Trump 's order says the IRS should not take action against churches that speak out on moral or political issues "where speech of similar character has, consistent with law, not ordinarily been treated as" campaign speech. In other words, the time-tested standard applies: Churches can speak out on political issues as long as they don't endorse or oppose a specific candidate. To be safe, Trump also directed that the order be followed "to the extent permitted by law."" The religious critics of this order have a point: In practice, it doesn't really do anything substantive," said  Edward  Zelinsky, a Yeshiva University law professor who has called for limited changes to the Johnson Amendment. " This order is purely symbolic with no practical impact." But he said symbols are important, and some see a nod to politically active pastors that they should feel free to express themselves — if not in his order, than in his Rose Garden remarks." This executive order directs the IRS not to unfairly target churches and religious organizations for political speech," Trump said. " No one should be censoring sermons or targeting pastors." Public Citizen president Robert Weissman said that rhetoric "will encourage religious groups to ignore the restrictions of the Johnson Amendment and dare the IRS to do anything about it." The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309345599/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~OnPolitics-Today-Trump-praises-health-care-repeal-that-hasnt-happened-yet/
On Politics Today: Trump praises health care repeal that hasn't happened yet On Politics Today: Trump praises health care repeal that hasn't happened yet Counting chickens before they've hatched is kind of this president's thing. On Politics Today: Trump praises health care repeal that hasn't happened yet On Politics Today: Trump praises health care repeal that hasn't happened yet Josh Hafner  President Trump , Speaker Paul Ryan and other congressional Republicans celebrate in the Rose Garden of the White House following the House vote to repeal Obamacare on May 4, 2017. ( Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/ Getty Images) President Donald Trump and Republicans gathered in the Rose garden Thursday afternoon to cheer, hoot and holler over a repeal of the Affordable Care Act that had yet to happen. A bill to repeal and replace Obamacare made it through the house by four votes on Thursday, but remains miles away from becoming law." We want to brag about the plan," Trump said amid political fanfare typically reserved for when bills are, you know, signed. House Speaker Paul Ryan admitted his Republicans have a ways to go before the bill turns into law, including passage of a Senate version and any reconciliation between that and the House's bill. But on Thursday, Trump basked in the sort-of victory." OK, I'm President!  Hey, I'm President!" Trump said. " Do you believe it?" It's On Politics Today: USA TODAY 's daily politics roundup.  Subscribe here. So what's the GOP's health care bill do? House Speaker Paul Ryan greets guests as he walks to the House chamber on Capitol Hill on May 4, 2017. ( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP) The Affordable Care Act, a.k.a. Obamacare, keeps insurance companies from charging excessive premiums to people with pre-existing conditions. The Republican bill passed by the House, however, lets states waive cost limits for patients with pre-existing conditions, provided they come up with some sort of alternate assistance. The bill provides $8 billion to help states defray the sure-to-increase premiums of such patients. The Affordable Care Act also limits how much more insurers can charge certain people for the same coverage. A 64-year-old's premiums can't be more than three times that of a 21-year-old, for example. But under the GOP bill, insurers could charge older people five times as much — and an amendment lets that ratio go higher. The bill also cuts funding to Planned Parenthood, swaps an individual mandate for higher premiums and lets states waive requirements for "essential health benefits" coverage, including maternity care and emergency room visits. See a breakdown on those changes and more from USA TODAY 's Paul Singer. All that said, the bill will likely experience serious changes as it goes through the Senate, where moderate Republicans are already shaking their head at the plan. Lawmakers shut down the shutdown   The government has avoided a shutdown after congressional negotiators reached a 1 trillion dollar agreement, but it’s not all President Trump hoped it would be. Josh King has the story (@abridgetoland).  Buzz60 Well guys, they did it again: A series of last-ditch efforts once more prevented a shutdown of the federal government, which was slated to happen this time at midnight Friday. Senators overwhelmingly approved a funding bill Thursday, which passed through the House Wednesday despite opposition from 100-plus Republicans. The bill sidesteps many hot-button issues, Erin Kelly reports, including Trump 's signature border wall and Planned Parenthood funding. Trump said he would sign the bill, despite calling for a shutdown of the very government he oversees just earlier this week. As a hat tip to evangelicals, Trump signs 'religious liberty' order President Trump signs an executive order in the Rose Garden of the White House on May 4, 2017. ( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) Trump somehow received the support of 81% of white evangelicals last fall, so you know he aims to do religious folks a favor or two in office. In February, he vowed to "totally destroy" the Johnson Amendment, the part of tax law that prevents churches from directly supporting political campaigns. He can't actually do that himself — only Congress can — so Trump signed an executive order on Thursday that he said would take "historic steps to protect religious liberty." In reality, it basically tells the IRS to enforce the law in the same way it's done in the past, letting churches speak about politics as long as they don't endorse or speak against a specific candidate. Elsewhere in politics A first? Trump regrets something he said Trump 's trade pick, a former lobbyist, is basically the swamp he promised to drain Trump offered to marry ' Morning Joe' hosts. They said no. Refugee admissions plummet after Trump 's threats Puerto Rico's going bankrupt, and you need to pay attention
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309471904/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Three-key-findings-in-new-report-analyzes-polling-and-the-election/
GANNETT Syndication Service USATODAY - Washington Top Stories  Current Articles A look at former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice2017-05-04 21:30 UTCRepublican converts were key to passage of health care bill2017-05-04 21:10 UTC by USA TODAY Religious conservatives mixed on Trump 's order targeting birth control, church involvement in politics2017-05-04 21:12 UTC by USA TODAY Trump 's trade pick clears hurdle, despite past foreign lobbying2017-05-04 21:32 UTC by USA TODAY Health care vote puts pressure on dozens of vulnerable GOP reps2017-05-04 21:18 UTC by USA TODAY Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go2017-05-04 21:22 UTC by USA TODAY Quiz: How well do you know your inauguration history?2016 -12-16 15:19 UTC by USA TODAY Meet the new U. S. senators2016 -11-10 18:28 UTC USA TODAY 's blog on all things political2016 -11-09 17:15 UTC by USATODAYCapital Download: Latest interviews2016 -12-14 18:27 UTC USA TODAY and Gannett coverage of the 2016 elections 2016 -10-03 15:10 UTC by USATODAYCongress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate2016 -07-01 22:04 UTC by USA TODAY Democrat Tom Perriello crushes an ambulance in ad for Va. gubernatorial race2017-05-04 20:52 UTC by USA TODAY After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill2017-05-04 21:29 UTC by USA TODAY What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law2017-05-04 19:52 UTC by USA TODAY The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington2017-01-21 15:54 UTCIn major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal2017-05-04 20:51 UTC by USATODAYSenate averts shutdown, funds the government through September2017-05-04 18:13 UTC by USA TODAY President Trump deletes tweet about meeting with Palestinian leader Abbas2017-05-04 17:58 UTC by USA TODAY In tour of major religions, Trump will visit Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican on first foreign trip2017-05-04 17:28 UTC by USA TODAY Watch live: House debates and votes on Republican bill to repeal and replace Obamacare2017-05-04 17:06 UTC by USA TODAY NETWORK Trump signs 'religious liberty' order, ACLU calls it discriminatory2017-05-04 16:47 UTC by Newslook Fact check: The pre-existing conditions debate2017-05-04 16:36 UTC by Fact Check.org Trump 'vigorously' promotes religious liberty with executive order2017-05-04 16:26 UTC by Wochit GOP health care bill headed towards vote2017-05-04 16:24 UTCSen. Bob Casey's attempt to stop mother, 5-year-old's deportation fails2017-05-04 16:24 UTC by York ( Pa.) Daily Record Sikhs nationwide are opening their temples to dispel myths about turbans2017-05-04 21:33 UTC by USA TODAY Experts: Pre-existing coverage in House GOP bill would fall far short2017-05-04 21:17 UTC by USA TODAY Sunday Standings: Tallying the top talk-show guests2016 -12-14 18:25 UTCPomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement2016 -12-21 14:24 UTC by USA TODAY Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies2016 -12-05 23:27 UTC by USA TODAY Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake2016 -11-29 19:46 UTC by USA TODAY Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College2016 -11-14 18:51 UTC by USA TODAY Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift'2016 -10-30 18:30 UTC by USA TODAY For the Record: Sign up for our politics newsletter2016 -12-14 18:26 UTC by USATODAYCup of Politics: Listen to USA TODAY 's weekly political podcast2016 -12-14 18:30 UTC by USATODAYApril political cartoons from the USA TODAY Network2017-04-01 13:07 UTCBarack Obama's final weeks in office2016 -11-10 19:33 UTCA look at Speaker Paul Ryan's political career2015-10-21 00:54 UTCFrom FDR to Obama: A look back at inaugural traditions2016 -12-29 21:37 UTCPresident Trump 's picks for his Cabinet and advisers2016 -12-01 03:08 UTC  Content mobilized by Feed Blitz RSS Services, the premium Feed Burner alternative.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309417218/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Republican-converts-were-key-to-passage-of-health-care-bill/
Republican converts were key to passage of health care bill  Republican converts were key to passage of health care bill Nearly two dozen House Republicans who had opposed an earlier version of the American Health Care Act switched their position and voted for the revised legislation, assuring the bill's passage Thursday. Republican converts were key to passage of health care bill  Nearly two dozen House Republicans who had opposed an earlier version of the American Health Care Act switched their position and voted for the revised legislation, assuring the bill's passage Thursday.  Republican converts were key to passage of health care bill Bill Theobald  Published 5:09 p.m. ET May 4, 2017 | Updated 5 hours ago Rep. Darrell Issa, R- Calif., voted for the revised version of the American Health Care Act.( Photo: Justin Sullivan, Getty Images)  — Nearly two dozen House Republicans who had opposed an earlier version of the American Health Care Act switched their position and voted for the revised legislation, assuring the bill's passage  Thursday. Those converts allowed the bill, which was pulled from the House floor  March 24 because Republican leaders realized they lacked the votes for passage, to squeak by on a 217-213 vote. Among those who overcame earlier concerns and voted for the legislation are several Republicans thought to be vulnerable in the 2018 congressional elections , including Rep. Darrell Issa of California. Issa, one of the wealthiest members of Congress and former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, barely won re-election in 2016 .“ Today, we made good on our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Issa said in a statement released after the vote. “ Let's stop pretending Obamacare is going to fix itself or that somehow, someday, it’s going to get better.” Earlier, Issa had said he was "not prepared" to vote for the original version of the Republican's health care bill. He didn’t cite specific aspects of the bill he objected to but rather said he thought Republicans could do better. Just two days ago, Issa provided a terse response when confronted by reporters who asked him what his position was on the new version of the bill.“ None of your business,” Issa replied. Read more: In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? Another potentially vulnerable Republican who switched from no to yes is Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, who termed the earlier version of the bill "unacceptable." Frelinghuysen said in a statement after Tuesday’s vote that “doing nothing is not an option.”“ Today, I want to reassure New Jersey families that this legislation protects those with pre-existing conditions and restores essential health benefits,” he said. Opponents, including Republicans who voted against the bill, pointed out that the legislation allows states to opt out of the requirement that insurance policies cover minimum "essential" benefits. Insurance companies also would be allowed to charge people with pre-existing conditions more under the revised bill. But Republicans added $8 billion to the bill to help people with pre-existing conditions afford higher premiums. These are 20 Republicans who voted against the American Health Care Act: Andy Biggs of Arizona
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309134306/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Religious-conservatives-mixed-on-Trumps-order-targeting-birth-control-church-involvement-in-politics/
GANNETT Syndication Service USATODAY - Washington Top Stories  Current Articles A look at former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice2017-05-04 21:30 UTCRepublican converts were key to passage of health care bill2017-05-04 21:10 UTC by USA TODAY Religious conservatives mixed on Trump 's order targeting birth control, church involvement in politics2017-05-04 21:12 UTC by USA TODAY Trump 's trade pick clears hurdle, despite past foreign lobbying2017-05-04 21:32 UTC by USA TODAY Health care vote puts pressure on dozens of vulnerable GOP reps2017-05-04 21:18 UTC by USA TODAY Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go2017-05-04 21:22 UTC by USA TODAY Quiz: How well do you know your inauguration history?2016 -12-16 15:19 UTC by USA TODAY Meet the new U. S. senators2016 -11-10 18:28 UTC USA TODAY 's blog on all things political2016 -11-09 17:15 UTC by USATODAYCapital Download: Latest interviews2016 -12-14 18:27 UTC USA TODAY and Gannett coverage of the 2016 elections 2016 -10-03 15:10 UTC by USATODAYCongress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate2016 -07-01 22:04 UTC by USA TODAY Democrat Tom Perriello crushes an ambulance in ad for Va. gubernatorial race2017-05-04 20:52 UTC by USA TODAY After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill2017-05-04 21:29 UTC by USA TODAY What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law2017-05-04 19:52 UTC by USA TODAY The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington2017-01-21 15:54 UTCIn major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal2017-05-04 20:51 UTC by USATODAYSenate averts shutdown, funds the government through September2017-05-04 18:13 UTC by USA TODAY President Trump deletes tweet about meeting with Palestinian leader Abbas2017-05-04 17:58 UTC by USA TODAY In tour of major religions, Trump will visit Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican on first foreign trip2017-05-04 17:28 UTC by USA TODAY Watch live: House debates and votes on Republican bill to repeal and replace Obamacare2017-05-04 17:06 UTC by USA TODAY NETWORK Trump signs 'religious liberty' order, ACLU calls it discriminatory2017-05-04 16:47 UTC by Newslook Fact check: The pre-existing conditions debate2017-05-04 16:36 UTC by Fact Check.org Trump 'vigorously' promotes religious liberty with executive order2017-05-04 16:26 UTC by Wochit GOP health care bill headed towards vote2017-05-04 16:24 UTCSen. Bob Casey's attempt to stop mother, 5-year-old's deportation fails2017-05-04 16:24 UTC by York ( Pa.) Daily Record Sikhs nationwide are opening their temples to dispel myths about turbans2017-05-04 21:33 UTC by USA TODAY Experts: Pre-existing coverage in House GOP bill would fall far short2017-05-04 21:17 UTC by USA TODAY Sunday Standings: Tallying the top talk-show guests2016 -12-14 18:25 UTCPomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement2016 -12-21 14:24 UTC by USA TODAY Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies2016 -12-05 23:27 UTC by USA TODAY Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake2016 -11-29 19:46 UTC by USA TODAY Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College2016 -11-14 18:51 UTC by USA TODAY Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift'2016 -10-30 18:30 UTC by USA TODAY For the Record: Sign up for our politics newsletter2016 -12-14 18:26 UTC by USATODAYCup of Politics: Listen to USA TODAY 's weekly political podcast2016 -12-14 18:30 UTC by USATODAYApril political cartoons from the USA TODAY Network2017-04-01 13:07 UTCBarack Obama's final weeks in office2016 -11-10 19:33 UTCA look at Speaker Paul Ryan's political career2015-10-21 00:54 UTCFrom FDR to Obama: A look back at inaugural traditions2016 -12-29 21:37 UTCPresident Trump 's picks for his Cabinet and advisers2016 -12-01 03:08 UTC  Content mobilized by Feed Blitz RSS Services, the premium Feed Burner alternative.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309228485/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trumps-trade-pick-clears-hurdle-despite-past-foreign-lobbying/
President Trump 's trade pick Robert Lighthizer clears hurdle, despite lobbying work  Trump 's trade pick clears hurdle, despite past foreign lobbying A little-noticed provision in a massive spending bill waives a 1995 lobbying ban. Trump 's trade pick clears hurdle, despite past foreign lobbying  Trump 's trade pick clears hurdle, despite past foreign lobbying Fredreka Schouten  Published 4:59 p.m. ET May 4, 2017 | Updated 3 hours ago Robert Lighthizer testifies before the Senate Finance Committee.( Photo: Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP) Congressional negotiators tucked a provision into a massive spending bill that will allow a lawyer who represented foreign clients to serve as President Trump ’s top trade negotiator A single paragraph on Page 232 of the 1,665-page bill paves the way for Robert Lighthizer’s confirmation as U. S. trade representative, despite his work on behalf of foreign governments in the 1980s and 1990s. The veteran lawyer represented Brazil in an ethanol trade dispute with the United States in 1985. He also helped advise an electronics trade group tied to the Chinese government in 1991. In 1995, Congress barred people who represented foreign governments in trade disputes with the United States from serving as trade representative. The ban came amid concerns that former U. S. government officials had lobbied on Mexico’s behalf during negotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement. The one-paragraph waiver does not mention Lighthizer by name but says it “applies only to the first person appointed as United States Trade Representative after the date of enactment of this act and to no other person.” The Senate on Thursday approved the bipartisan spending bill that includes the waiver. Trump has said he will sign the bill, which funds federal agencies through September and averts a government shutdown at midnight Friday. The waiver for Lighthizer is part of a bipartisan compromise that also added a measure preserving health and pension benefits for retired coal miners. Trump has repeatedly pledged to “drain the swamp” of special-interest lobbyists in Washington.  In January, he issued an executive order that imposes a lifetime ban on his appointees lobbying on behalf of a foreign government after they leave this administration. Administration officials have argued  Lighthizer's work from the 1980s and 1990s should not bar him from serving as Trump 's top trade negotiator. Meredith Mc Gehee, a top official with the watchdog group Issue One, advocated for the 1995 ban. She said Lighthizer's waiver is probably "justified," given that his work on behalf of foreign governments occurred decades ago. But doing this "under the table" in a massive spending bill "makes it seem sneaky," she said. Read more: Senate averts shutdown, funds the government through September Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell, R- Ky., said the measure was agreed to by Democrats. A standalone bill, he said, would have taken additional days. Natalie Strom, a White House spokeswoman, said the administration has long maintained that Lighthizer did not need a waiver. " We are glad that the nomination has moved forward, and we all are looking forward to welcoming him aboard," she said. The full Senate still must confirm Lighthizer's nomination, but he has bipartisan support on Capitol Hill. The Senate Finance Committee voted unanimously to support his confirmation. The U. S. Chamber of Commerce has called him a "staunch advocate for American industry." Congress has approved a similar waiver in the past, allowing Charlene Barshefsky to serve as U. S. trade representative in the Clinton administration. She had worked for a trade group aligned with the Mexican government. The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309403614/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Health-care-vote-puts-pressure-on-dozens-of-vulnerable-GOP-reps/
Health care vote makes dozens of Republicans more vulnerable, analysts say.  Health care vote puts pressure on dozens of vulnerable GOP reps Rep. Mimi Walters of California vowed to protect patients with pre-existing conditions Health care vote puts pressure on dozens of vulnerable GOP reps  Health care vote puts pressure on dozens of vulnerable GOP reps Heidi M Przybyla  USA TODAY President Trump and Vice President Pence cheer House Republicans on May 4, 2017.( Photo: JIM LO SCALZO, EPA)  —  Days after President Trump ’s inauguration, Rep. Mimi Walters of California vowed to protect patients with pre-existing conditions in any plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. On Wednesday she cast a vote for a plan allows insurance companies in some cases to charge higher premiums to people with cancer, diabetes and other common preexisting conditions — even pregnancy. It’s a moment that could have significant consequences for the Republican Party, particularly House lawmakers like Walters. Her  Orange County district is among a couple dozen that have just become more competitive for Democrats due to a vote on a Republican health care plan passed without a single Democratic vote, according to the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. There’s no way GOP leaders could have gotten the bill approved without the support of vulnerable lawmakers like Walters, who sits in a district that Democrat Hillary Clinton won by six points in November. Republicans say the plan will eventually lower health care premiums, even if it results in fewer Americans being insured than under the current health system.“ It’s called spending your political capital,” said David Wasserman, House editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. “ Elections have consequences and majorities tend to use their majority to do things that are unpopular,” said Wasserman, who told USA TODAY he is changing ratings on close to two dozen races to reflect the increased political liability.“ It gives Democrats a really big vote to attack,” he said, citing members like Walters as well as fellow Californians Ed Royce and Dana Rohrabacher. Even before the vote, there were regular demonstrations outside all of their district offices. In January, Walters tweeted that she is “committed to protecting patients w/ pre-existing conditions.” We’re committed to protecting patients w/ pre-existing conditions to ensure their access to quality, affordable healthcare. It’s a # Better Way Mimi Walters (@ Rep Mimi Walters) January 27, 2017 In a statement following the vote, she didn’t mention pre-existing conditions. “ I gave the people of Orange County my word that I would work to ensure all Americans have access to an affordable, patient-centered healthcare system,” she said. Protecting sick Americans The imperative of protecting sick Americans from the whims of a more capitalist, free market health care system was a key talking point for Democrats as well as Trump throughout the 2016 election. As recently as a few days ago, Trump even insisted such protections were part of his plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. The current law does not and the original GOP bill would not allow insurers to set premiums based on health status. But an amendment would allow it for those who do not maintain continuous coverage, defined as a lapse of 63 days or more over the previous 12 months. Such policyholders could be charged higher premiums for pre-existing conditions for one year. After that, provided there wasn’t another 63-day gap, the policyholder would get a new, less expensive premium that was not based on health status. The GOP vow to repeal and replace Obamacare was so central — both to Trump ’s campaign and throughout the past seven years of Republican control of the House — that Republicans made a bet that doing nothing could be more costly if their base voters rebelled. Republicans say the legislation would bring down the price of premiums and stimulate more competition among insurers who are currently withdrawing from certain markets.“ Donald Trump was elected president on the promise to repeal and replace Obamacare,” said Rep. Chris Collins, a Republican representing New York’s 27th district. “ If we weren’t able to repeal and replace Obamacare, it would have been a bad midterm for us. I think we will at least hold our own, if not pick up seats,” he said. Indeed, conservative groups known for spending against Republicans who fail to back their agenda, including the Club for Growth, lauded the bill. “ Republicans owe a debt of gratitude to conservatives for greatly improving the AHCA,” said Club for Growth president David Mc Intosh. The legislation is unlikely to go anywhere in the Senate in its current form, with critical moderate Republicans, including Nevada’s Dean Heller, registering their disapproval within minutes after the vote. Yet members including Walters are now on the record supporting it going into the 2018 election cycle. It “is a serious problem for Republicans who come from Clinton districts who voted for this,” said Wasserman. In all, there are 23 Republicans representing districts Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton won, and 14 of them supported the bill. Democrats need 24 seats to retake the House. Yet the danger isn’t limited to these districts. According to an analysis by the New York Times’ Upshot, voters in districts that voted for Trump have the most to lose if the legislation were to become law. Those eligible for at least $5,000 less in tax credits supported Trump by a margin of 59% to 36%, according to the analysis based on the previous version of the bill. At the same time, taxpayers in counties that backed Trump would see less of a gain in tax relief (about $6.6 billion) compared to counties that backed Clinton (about $21.9 billion), according to a Bloomberg analysis based on the initial bill. Moments after the vote, the Democrats’ official campaign organization blasted out an email announcing a digital ad campaign in 30 Republican-held districts, including those of some of the most vulnerable Republicans who were initially skeptical of the bill but supported it after a new amendment was added, including Reps. David Valadao and Jeff Denham of California.  The amendment worth $8 billion was intended to offset some of the costs of high-risk patients. Rep. Jeff Denham, R- Calif., is being targeted for his vote for the American Health Care Act. ( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) The big question is whether the GOP health plan will be as big a liability for the party as Obamacare was for Democrats in 2010, when they lost control of the House. According to a Kaiser Family Foundation tracking poll, the number of Americans viewing Obamacare favorably was up to 48% by late April. Democrats say they are targeting even vulnerable Republicans like Virginia’s Barbara Comstock who voted against the bill. “ Every single House Republican owns this,” said Tyler Law, a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spokesman. House bill The House bill would not fully repeal the 2010 Affordable Care Act, but it would kill major elements of that Democratic law. It would prune taxes, subsidies and mandates under the law and trim Medicaid. Current tax credits, which are based on income and the cost of health insurance in their local market, would be replaced with less generous tax credits based on age. It would create pools for high-risk patients but also allow insurance companies to opt out of "essential benefits" including maternity and emergency care. Prior to the Affordable Care Act, the majority of states did not have such coverage protections. Democrats say allowing insurance companies to discriminate will inevitably hurt the sickest, oldest and most vulnerable. They cite opposition by major groups representing doctors, nurses, hospitals and seniors, including the AARP and the American Medical Association. The bill effectively creates an “age tax” on old Americans, Democrats say, and it will actually raise premiums in short term, according to CBO. Republicans including Tim Walberg of Michigan cited a lot of “myths that are being spun,” citing a number of markets where insurers are withdrawing from Obamacare's individual exchange markets and arguing that more competition among insurance companies will bring down premiums. “ We tried the Obamacare way. It is failing remarkably and the American people are demanding a change,” said Rep. Kevin Mc Carthy of California, the House majority leader. Yet Republicans did not receive a score for the legislation from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office after a final amendment was added to draw more moderate Republican support. The amendment threw an extra $8 billion intended to offset the costs of high-risk patients. The prior version would have resulted in 24 million losing insurance, according to CBO. The  Center for American Progress estimated on Tuesday that the version the House voted on underfunds high-risk pools by $200 billion over 10 years. Town hall pressure Walters is among the Republicans already under significant pressure from her constituents, a number of whom have created a group called the California 45th Town Hall Group to pressure her to meet face-to-face with constituents. According to the group, it was formed because constituents have made “repeated, formal” requests for an open format town hall. She has declined and earlier told a radio station that the “whole goal is to try to get me to say something that they could use against me.” That pressure is only likely to intensify over a congressional break that starts this weekend.“ You have every provision of this bill tattooed on your forehead. You will glow in the dark," said Rep. Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House. Read more: Experts: Pre-existing coverage in House GOP bill would fall far short In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309151971/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-claims-victory-on-repealing-Obamacare-but-he-still-has-a-long-way-to-go/
 Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go  Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go President Trump hosted an unusual political pep rally at the White House Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go  Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go David Jackson  President Donald Trump welcomes jubilant House Republicans to the White House after they pushed through legislation undoing much of the Obama-era health law. ( May 4)  APPresident Trump speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House following the House passage of the Obamacare repeal bill on May 4, 2017.( Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/ Getty Images)  – President Trump took a televised victory lap Thursday after the House voted to pass a bill that would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act – an unusual Rose Garden ceremony considering that final victory remains miles away." It's going to be an unbelievable victory, actually, when we get it through the Senate," Trump said while surrounded by some four dozen House Republicans gathered at the White House. Lawmakers took buses from Capitol Hill to celebrate in the Rose Garden just minutes after the winning the health care bill by just four votes. The final 217-213 tally ended months of struggle to reach an agreement that would pass even in the Republican-controlled chamber. Trump and the Republicans clapped, cheered, and generally whooped it up as a succession of House leaders spoke at what amounted to a political pep rally, the kind of event normally reserved for a bill signing, not after passage in just one house of Congress. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., who had made his way to the Oval Office before Trump 's remarks, appeared in a jovial mood; he could be seen laughing and shaking hands with the president and aides with whom he had clashed during the health care debate. During the event, Ryan echoed other GOP lawmakers by saying that more work is needed "to get this signed into law." Indeed, the celebration could be somewhat premature. The Senate must now pass its own bill to repeal and replace President Obama's health care law – and that's no slam dunk. The final version of the House bill only surfaced in the past few days, and congressional budget officials have yet to analyze its costs and impact on people's ability to obtain insurance. Even if the Senate does approve its own health care bill, it must reconcile the differences with the House version. And there's no way to tell if a compromise package would get enough support from House conservatives. Trump , however, said "we want to brag about the plan," and he expressed confidence that the Senate would eventually pass it. Stressing that he pledged to repeal Obamacare during his presidential campaign, Trump cited his electoral success and reminded his fellow Republicans he has only been a politician for a short period of time." How am I doing?" Trump said. " OK, I'm President!  Hey, I'm President! do you believe it? Right?" Yet Democrats who back Obamacare mocked the early GOP celebration, saying there's a difference between winning a title and barely squeezing into the playoffs." This is the political equivalent of a champagne celebration after clinching the wild-card spot," tweeted  Tommy Vietor, a former Obama aide. " It's far from over, fellas." Trump administration officials said they are aware a long journey lies ahead. Sensing the challenges ahead, Vice President Pence told the Republican crowd: " Welcome to the beginning of the end of Obamacare." As White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders put it, " Today is about the House. This is the first step in the process."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309406260/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Democrat-Tom-Perriello-crushes-an-ambulance-in-ad-for-Va-gubernatorial-race/
Ambulance represents health care in Tom Perriello's new campaign ad  Democrat Tom Perriello crushes an ambulance in ad for Va. gubernatorial race Well, that's one way to show what you think of the Republican health care bill. Democrat Tom Perriello crushes an ambulance in ad for Va. gubernatorial race Democrat Tom Perriello crushes an ambulance in ad for Va. gubernatorial race Jessica Estepa  Former Virginia Congressman and Democratic gubernatorial candidate, Tom Perriello, listens to a question during a town hall in Richmond, Va., Wednesday, May 3, 2017. ( Photo: Steve Helber, AP) Well, that's one way to show what you think of the Republican health care bill. Within an hour of the House approving legislation that would repeal and replace Obamacare, Tom Perriello released on Thursday a very vivid ad. In a video aptly titled " Ambulance," the Democratic candidate in Virginia's gubernatorial race is seen standing in front of an ambulance placed in a car crusher." Republican leaders are trying to do this to affordable health care," Perriello shouts over the noise of the crusher bearing down on the ambulance. He goes on to note that he voted for Obamacare when he served as a representative for Virginia's 5th district." Together, we can stop Donald Trump , raise wages and build an economy that works everyone," he says. He then points backward to the smashed vehicle, adding, " And we'll make sure this never happens in Virginia." His campaign did not immediately return a request for comment. Perriello — a one-term congressman who lost in 2010, became president of the Center for American Progress and served in the Obama administration as a diplomat — is running against Ralph Northam, the state's lieutenant governor, to be the Democratic nominee in the Virginia gubernatorial race. The primary is in June. Watch the ad here:
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309370686/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~After-House-passage-the-Senate-is-likely-to-start-over-on-the-health-care-bill/
On health care, the Senate is likely to start over  After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill The health care bill that Republican leaders pushed quickly through the House on Thursday is expected to undergo big changes in the Senate, where some moderate GOP senators have already come out against the legislation. After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill  The health care bill that Republican leaders pushed quickly through the House on Thursday is expected to undergo big changes in the Senate, where some moderate GOP senators have already come out against the legislation.  After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill Erin Kelly  House OKs GOP bill erasing much of Obama's health care law, answering campaign pledge and sending measure to Senate. ( May 4)  APPresident Trump welcomes Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D- N. Y., far left, and Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell, R- Ky., as he hosts a reception for congressional leaders at the White House in January.( Photo: Ron Sachs, Pool/ European Pressphoto Agency)  — The health care bill that Republican leaders pushed quickly through the House on Thursday is expected to undergo major changes in the Senate, where some moderate GOP senators have already come out against the legislation. The Senate will review the House bill but will write its own version over the next few weeks, said Sen. Lamar Alexander, R- Tenn., chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee." We want to get it right," Alexander said Thursday on the Senate floor. " There will be no artificial deadlines." If the Senate passes its own bill, the House will either have to approve the Senate version or negotiate a compromise with senators, Alexander said. Any compromise bill would need to be approved by both the House and Senate before being sent to President Trump to sign. House Republicans, who have been vowing to repeal and replace Obamacare since its passage in 2010, passed a bill Thursday to unravel many of the Affordable Care Act's popular consumer protections, do away with the mandate for individuals to maintain health insurance and end expanded Medicaid eligibility.  The vote was hastily called after Republicans wooed moderates with a last-minute amendment to provide $8 billion to help patients with pre-existing conditions afford higher premiums. The 217-213 vote underscored sharp divisions over the legislation, which is a long way from becoming law but still represents a major victory for House Republican leaders and President Trump . It comes less than two months after House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., was forced to cancel a vote on an earlier version of the bill because it did not have enough Republican support to pass. Not a single Democrat voted for the bill. Read more: In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? Unlike House members, senators "want to make sure we know what our bill costs," Alexander said. The House passed its legislation before the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office had time to analyze it to estimate what it would cost and how many Americans it would insure. CBO had estimated that the original House bill would have lead to 24 million fewer people having insurance by 2026, but it would cut federal budget deficits by $337 billion. Sen. Rob Portman, a moderate Republican from Ohio, said Thursday he is worried about how the House bill could affect his constituents. Ohio is one of 32 states that expanded its Medicaid program for low-income residents under Obamacare." I’ve already made clear that I don’t support the House bill as currently constructed because I continue to have concerns that this bill does not do enough to protect Ohio's Medicaid expansion population, especially those who are receiving treatment for heroin and prescription drug abuse," Portman said in a statement. " We have an opioid crisis in this country, and I’m going to continue to work with my colleagues on solutions that ensure that those who are impacted by this epidemic can continue to receive treatment." At the same time, Portman said, Obamacare cannot be sustained as insurance premiums and deductibles "continue their steep climb."" Congress must take responsible action that lowers health care costs, but these changes must be made in a way that does not leave people behind," the senator said. Sen. Rob Portman, right, walks alongside Sen. Orrin Hatch after a briefing at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on April 26, 2017. ( Photo: Carolyn Kaster, AP) Similarly, Sen. Dean Heller, R- Nev., said he wants to repeal Obamacare "in a way that benefits Nevadans, but I think that the current bill falls short." Nevada is one of the states that expanded Medicaid under Obamacare." I will not support it in its current form in the Senate, and am confident that what the Senate considers and approves will be different from the House bill," Heller said in a statement. " We cannot pull the rug out from under states like Nevada that expanded Medicaid and we need assurances that people with pre-existing conditions will be protected." Another moderate Republican, Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, said "at this point, there seem to be more questions than answers about (the bill's) consequences."" This is an extremely important debate with significant implications for millions of Americans," she said. " We need to spend the time necessary to get this right and work to achieve the goal of expanding access to health care that is truly affordable and accessible." Democrats are united against the Republican bill to replace Obamacare, and Republicans have a slim majority of just 52 senators. That means GOP leaders can afford to lose just two Republican votes. That would give them a 50-50 tie, which Vice President Pence could break in favor of the bill. Republicans are using a budget procedure that allows them to pass the legislation with a simple majority of 51 votes rather than the 60-vote super-majority required to approve most major legislation. The procedure, called reconciliation, effectively stops Democrats from mounting a filibuster to block the bill. Read more: Fact check: The pre-existing conditions debate Experts: Pre-existing coverage in House GOP bill would fall far short What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D- N. Y., appealed to his Republican colleagues Thursday to slow the process down and work with Democrats. He said the House bill, despite the late addition of $8 billion, would still cause insurance premiums to go up 20% in the first few years while increasing average costs by more than $1,500 a year for middle-class Americans. He also criticized a provision that would allow insurers to dramatically increase what they could charge older Americans in comparison to younger consumers." It harms the American people in so many ways," Schumer said. " It doesn't have to be this way. Republicans could drop these efforts for repeal, drop these attempts which are undermining our health care system and causing insurers to flee the marketplace, and work with Democrats. Our door is open." House members may not recognize their bill by the time the Senate gets done with it, said Jack Pitney, a political scientist at Claremont Mc Kenna College in California." I think as this goes through the Senate and they have time to read this thing, in the end a lot of the House’s work will be undone," he said. House conservatives will have to decide whether the moderating changes the Senate is likely to make are more politically palatable to them that rejecting the chance to repeal Obamacare,  Pitney said." The Senate's fix for the bill may end up looking a lot like Obamacare," he said. Contributing: Deirdre Shesgreen and Michael Collins
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309151969/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~What-health-insurance-covers-could-change-dramatically-if-AHCA-becomes-law/
What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law  What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law Maternity care, mental health and substance use disorder may not be covered, even for employees. The "essential benefits" plans cover will be up to states, insurers. What's it cost to have a baby? Better check. What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law  Maternity care, mental health and substance use disorder may not be covered, even for employees. The "essential benefits" plans cover will be up to states, insurers. What's it cost to have a baby? Better check.  What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law Jayne O' Donnell  USA TODAY House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. greets guests as he walks to the House Chamber on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, May 4, 2017 on his way to vote for the Obamacare repeal bill.( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP)  Thursday's vote in the House to repeal the Affordable Care Act means people who get health insurance through their employers could also wind up with lifetime limits on their coverage and plans that don't cover benefits such as mental health or maternity care, just as it will be for those who buy their own insurance on the exchanges. The ACA prohibited annual and lifetime limits on insurance coverage, just as it established a set of essential benefits that all insurance plans must cover. These include preventive care, such as mammograms, as well as benefits for hospitalization and substance use disorder. Provisions in the replacement legislation, the American Health Care Act, don't specifically mention employer-provided "essential health benefits," but Brookings Institution fellow Matthew Fiedler says it could have a big effect on those who get insurance through their jobs. Once states can determine what benefits insurance plans must cover, large employers could move to slash coverage based on whatever states set as a benchmark plan. The two major affected protections are the ACA’s ban on annual and lifetime limits, as well as the law's requirement that insurance plans cap people's annual out-of-pocket spending." Both of these provisions aim to ensure that seriously ill people can access needed health care services while continuing to meet their other financial needs," Fiedler wrote. This does pose a significant risk, says Kaiser Family Foundation's Larry Levitt, as nearly 60% of employer plans had lifetime limits on coverage before the ACA.  In a conservative state, regulators could also "just get rid of (essential health benefits) altogether and leave up to insurers what to cover," says Levitt. " That would be the easiest political decision." It's not clear at all whether insurers would offer optional maternity coverage at an affordable price, says Levitt. Women past childbearing age often complained about high premiums on plans they said covered things like maternity care they didn't need. Read more:  In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal Experts: Pre-existing coverage in House GOP bill would fall far short What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? Big companies heralded the AHCA's passage because they "will continue to have the ability to operate, improve, and innovate,” as Annette Guarisco Fildes, CEO of the ERISA Industry Committee ( ERIC), said in a statement. ERIC. which represents the largest U. S. employers, noted that Health Savings Account contribution limits were increased to match annual maximum out-of-pocket costs. While most large plans had limits on coverage before the ACA, ERIC's James  Gelfand says that when an employee got near it, "the plan tended to change it or accommodate."" We want them to be healthy and taken care of," says Gelfand, ERIC's senior vice president for health policy. " This is a very different motivation than some of the actors in the individual and fully insured market." Adams Dudley, a physician and director of the Center for Healthcare Value, says when insurance didn't cover all of the essential health benefits it wasn't actually "real insurance." Before the ACA, insurers "could write into the fine print that weren’t covered and there were caps on those things — sometimes with very Draconian results."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/308779095/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~In-major-victory-for-Republicans-House-passes-Obamacare-repeal/
Obamacare repeal: House passes bill in major victory for Republicans  In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal House Republicans made good on their years-long promise Thursday to pass a bill that would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal  House Republicans made good on their years-long promise Thursday to pass a bill that would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.  In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal Deirdre Shesgreen  House OKs GOP bill erasing much of Obama's health care law, answering campaign pledge and sending measure to Senate. ( May 4)  APHouse Speaker Paul Ryan greets guests as he walks to the House chamber on Capitol Hill on May 4, 2017.( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP)  — House Republicans made good on their years-long promise Thursday to pass legislation repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, narrowly approving a controversial bill that would unravel many of the law’s popular consumer protections, do away with the individual mandate, and overhaul the insurance market. The final tally — 217 to 213 — reflected sharp divisions over the GOP’s proposal, which is a long way from becoming law but still represents a huge victory for House Republican leaders and the Trump administration. The GOP has struggled for months to cobble together legislation that would garner the required 216 votes from its own fractured conference." This bill delivers on the promises that we have made to the American people," said House Speaker Paul Ryan, R- Wis., at the end of an impassioned floor debate. " A lot of us have been waiting seven years to cast this vote … (and) to rescue people from this collapsing law." He and other Republicans said the GOP plan would increase competition, lower costs and return power to the states and to individuals. Keeping Obamacare in place, Ryan said, would mean "even higher premiums, even fewer choices, even more insurance companies pulling out" of the individual market. Democrats fiercely attacked the Republican bill, saying it would gut consumer protections, increase health care costs, and strip health insurance from the poor and middle class." Trump care eviscerates essential health benefits," such as maternity care and prescription drug coverage, said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D- Calif., "... and guts protections for people with pre-existing conditions." Pelosi also suggested that Thursday's vote could have sweeping political consequences for the GOP, telling moderate Republicans they would have "every provision of this bill tattooed on your forehead" and voters would remember that "you voted to take away their health care." House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi arrives to speak during her weekly press conference on Capitol Hill on May 4, 2017. ( Photo: Eric Thayer, Getty Images) As the vote closed with a pound of the gavel, some Democrats even began chanting " Na na na na, hey hey, hey, goodbye!" For their part, jubilant Republicans dashed down to the White House to take a victory lap in the Rose Garden with President Trump .“ This is a real plan. This is a great plan,” Trump said, declaring the House vote an “unbelievable victory.”“ We’re going to get this finished,” Trump added, exuding confidence that the Senate would improve and pass the bill. That is the next stop for the GOP proposal, but Senate Republicans are already split over the measure and Democrats are unified in opposition. Republicans hold a narrow 52-seat majority in the chamber; because they will consider the bill under special budget rules that prevent a filibuster, the GOP will need only 51 votes to pass the health care bill. Thursday’s vote in the House was hastily scheduled and came after weeks of negotiations, hours of wooing wavering Republicans, and a last-minute sweetener added to the bill: an $8 billion amendment to help patients with pre-existing conditions pay for higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs." There's been a lot of drama, a little bit of trauma along the way," said Rep. Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a member of the House GOP leadership. Cole and other Republicans shrugged off questions about whether they were allowing lawmakers enough time to read the bill, debate it, and understand its impact.“ We can’t wait a moment longer than necessary to provide relief,” said Rep. Diane Black, R- Tenn. Under Obamacare, she said, "the situation is getting worse every day.” Read more: What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? Fact check: The pre-existing conditions debate Experts: Pre-existing coverage in House GOP bill would fall far short Last-minute amendments to the legislation were only made public late Wednesday night, and GOP pushed ahead with Thursday’s vote without having a full analysis from the Congressional Budget Office, which is charged with estimating costs and benefits of proposed legislation. A previous CBO report estimated the bill would reduce the deficit by $150 billion over 10 years and cause an estimated 24 million people to forgo or lose their insurance by 2026. The current House bill would not fully repeal the 2010 Affordable Care Act, but it would kill major elements of that Democratic law. For example, the American Health Care Act would nix the requirement that most Americans purchase insurance, but it would keep in place a provision allowing younger Americans to stay on their parents' health plans until age 26. The bill would phase out Obamacare's Medicaid expansion starting Jan. 1, 2020, with those already enrolled allowed to stay on that government program but no further expansion permitted. The Republican proposal would also repeal the ACA’s tax credits, which are based on income and the cost of health insurance in their local market, and replace those with less generous tax credits based on age. The most contentious element centered on how to deal with patients who have pre-existing conditions, such as cancer, asthma, or diabetes. The Affordable Care Act bars insurance companies from discriminating against those with pre-existing conditions. The GOP bill would weaken that protection by allowing states to seek a waiver for insurance companies to charge people with pre-existing conditions higher premiums than other consumers. That change prompted a bevy of GOP moderates to shun the measure. To shore up support on Wednesday, GOP leaders and the White House agreed to include the extra $8 billion to help patients with pre-existing health problems. That last-minute amendment won over several crucial votes and gave Republicans momentum heading into Thursday’s vote.“ It protects people with pre-existing conditions and brings premiums down,” said Rep. Tom Mac Arthur, R- N. J., a moderate who helped negotiate the final package. Rep. Tom Mac Arthur, R- N. J., speaks with reporters on Capitol Hill on May 2, 2017, following the Republican conference meeting. ( Photo: Cliff Owen, AP) But bevy of patient advocacy groups, including the American Heart Association and the American Cancer Society, strongly opposed the bill despite the tweaks to help those with pre-existing conditions. In a letter urging lawmakers to reject the proposal, 10 health organizations said the measure would undermine key patient safeguards, lead to higher out-of-pocket expenses, and jeopardize coverage for millions of Americans." This bill is fundamentally harmful to patients," the letter stated. Democrats echoed that in the debate, saying the last-minute changes would do next to nothing to help those with pre-existing conditions." The Republican health care bill is reckless and heartless," Rep. Rosa De Lauro, D- Conn., said. " It will have threatening consequences for millions of Americans. It will cost lives." With Democrats unified against the measure, GOP leaders could only lose about 22 Republicans and still pass the bill. They spent weeks in a tug-of-war between the moderate and conservative factions inside the House Republican Conference, adding provisions to appease each group in delicate political balancing act. The vote count remained highly fluid even on Thursday morning as House leaders and Trump lobbied individual holdouts and won over converts. In the end, 20 Republicans opposed the GOP bill, mostly moderates from northeastern states.“ I ran on the promise of not simply repealing Obamacare and returning to the status quo, but offering something better,” said Rep. Leonard Lance, R- N. J., who voted “no” on the GOP bill. Lance predicted the bill would undergo “substantial changes in the Senate” and said he hoped lawmakers in that chamber would shore up patient protections and create a more stable transition from Obamacare to a new system. Contributing: Herb Jackson
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309072809/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Senate-averts-shutdown-funds-the-government-through-September/
Senate averts shutdown, funds government through September  Senate averts shutdown, funds the government through September The Senate on Thursday approved a bipartisan compromise to fund federal agencies through September and end the threat of a government shutdown at midnight Friday. Senate averts shutdown, funds the government through September  The Senate on Thursday approved a bipartisan compromise to fund federal agencies through September and end the threat of a government shutdown at midnight Friday.  Senate averts shutdown, funds the government through September Erin Kelly  U. S. military personnel are pictured in Afghanistan. A government funding bill passed by the Senate on Friday would increase funding for combat operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria.( Photo: Brendan Smialowski, AFP/ Getty Images)  —  The Senate on Thursday approved a bipartisan compromise to fund federal agencies through September and end the threat of a government shutdown at midnight Friday. Senators voted 79-18 to pass the government funding bill, which was approved by the House on Wednesday despite opposition from more than 100 Republicans. All of the "no" votes in the Senate were from Republicans. President Trump has said he will sign the bill before current funding expires Friday." Because of hard work from both chambers and both sides of the aisle, we have a funding bill before us that can make many important and positive impacts in the lives of the people we represent," said Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell, R- Ky. The vote ends more than two weeks of drama as Congress scrambled to avert a government shutdown while negotiating divisive issues ranging from Trump 's proposed border wall to funding for Planned Parenthood. The White House made those negotiations more complicated by threatening at times to derail the deal if Trump didn't get what he wanted in the bill. Read more: Here's what the government spending deal will and won't fund House passes bill to fund government through September Spending bill excludes border wall, but Trump declares victory anyway In the end, the White House and lawmakers of both parties could claim victories after making some significant concessions." The bill doesn't include all of the things we wanted; it doesn't include all of the things that our Republican colleagues wanted," said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D- N. Y. " That is the nature of compromise. But at the end of the day, this is an agreement that reflects our basic principles and is something both Democrats and Republicans should support. The bill shows how bipartisanship in Congress should work — both parties negotiating in good faith in order to find consensus." Trump got half of the extra $30 billion in extra funding he requested for defense and combat operations and half of the $3 billion he sought in additional money for border security. The bill does not provide the $1.4 billion Trump wanted to begin construction of a wall along the U. S.- Mexico border. The president expressed anger at the Democrats' refusal to support the border wall, tweeting Tuesday that the government could use "a good shutdown" before the next funding deadline in September to shake things up. He also decried Senate rules that require 60 votes to pass a spending bill, which gives power to the Democratic minority. President Trump speaks on May 2, 2017, in the Rose Garden of the White House. ( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) However, House leaders also needed Democrats to help them approve the legislation despite the fact that House rules make it much easier for the majority party to pass its agenda. Conservatives who opposed the bill said it did not go far enough in funding Trump 's priorities or reducing government spending. Republican lawmakers touted the fact that the bill helps boost defense spending by $25 billion for the full 2017 fiscal year and provides the largest increase in border security funding in a decade. They also froze funding for the Internal Revenue Service and cut funding for the Environmental Protection Agency — although only by about 1%. Democrats touted the $2 billion in extra funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health, the resumption of year-round Pell grants to provide a million college students with an additional average award of $1,650 to help pay tuition, and nearly $296 million to help plug an emergency budget shortfall in Puerto Rico that was threatening to cut off Medicaid funding in the U. S. territory this year. Democrats also took credit for keeping controversial items out of the bill, including the border wall, the defunding of Planned Parenthood, and extra funding to hire more Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents for Trump 's "deportation force." However, Democrats failed to get language in the bill that would have required the Trump administration to continue paying federal subsidies to insurance companies that offer lower-cost medical coverage to low-income Americans. The president had threatened to cut off the payments as a way to force Democrats to negotiate a new health care bill to replace Obamacare. Last week, Democratic leaders said they received assurances from the White House that those payments would continue. However, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said this week that there is no agreement and insurers may not receive payments for May. One spending priority in the bill that did receive bipartisan support was more than $1 billion for a permanent extension of health insurance benefits for retired union mine workers and their families, who were facing the prospect of losing those benefits at midnight Friday if Congress hadn't acted. Now that Congress has averted the latest shutdown threat, it will turn to writing legislation to fund federal agencies for the 2018 fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1. The House and Senate Appropriations committees have begun work on spending bills, and Trump is expected to offer a detailed budget proposal this month. Negotiations over 2018 funding are expected to include many of the same potential stumbling blocks, including another fierce battle over money for the border wall.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309270628/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~President-Trump-deletes-tweet-about-meeting-with-Palestinian-leader-Abbas/
Donald Trump deletes tweet about meeting with Palestine's Mahmoud Abbas  President Trump deletes tweet about meeting with Palestinian leader Abbas President Trump on Thursday deleted a tweet about his meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, despite the tweet simply reiterating what he said publicly. President Trump deletes tweet about meeting with Palestinian leader Abbas  President Trump on Thursday deleted a tweet about his meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, despite the tweet simply reiterating what he said publicly.  President Trump deletes tweet about meeting with Palestinian leader Abbas Jessica Estepa  President Donald Trump shakes hands with with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas during their meeting in the Oval Office of the White House, Wednesday, May 3, 2017, in Washington. ( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) President Trump on Thursday deleted a tweet about his meeting with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, despite the tweet simply reiterating what he said publicly." An honor to host President Mahmoud Abbas at the WH today. Hopefully something terrific will come out of it between the Palestinians and Israel," Trump said in the tweet, written on the day he welcomed the leader of the Palestinian Authority. During remarks on Wednesday, Trump said he was pleased to welcome Abbas to the White  House and pledged to bring a lasting peace agreement between Palestinians and Israelis. The deletion of the tweet, noted by Pro Publica's Politwoops, came about 13 hours after the president posted it on Wednesday. It isn't clear why the president deleted the tweet. It's at least the 12th tweet the president has deleted since he took office, per Politwoops and USA TODAY analysis. Some of the deletions have been to correct misspellings or remove words, while others have been to add more context. The president's deletion of tweets has raised the question of whether doing so violates the Presidential Records Act, which mandates the preservation of all presidential records. The National Archives has advised the administration to "capture and preserve all tweets that the President posts… including those that are subsequently deleted," according to Gizmodo.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309163766/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~In-tour-of-major-religions-Trump-will-visit-Saudi-Arabia-Israel-and-Vatican-on-first-foreign-trip/
In tour of major religions, Trump will visit Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican on first foreign trip  In tour of major religions, Trump will visit Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican on first foreign trip President Trump also meets with NATO and G-7 countries at end of May In tour of major religions, Trump will visit Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican on first foreign trip  In tour of major religions, Trump will visit Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican on first foreign trip David Jackson and  Published 12:11 p.m. ET May 4, 2017 | Updated 9 hours ago President Trump speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House Thursday as he announced a trip to Saudi Arabia, Israel and Vatican City.( Photo: Evan Vucci, AP)  —  President Trump will add visits to Saudi Arabia, Israel and Rome to his pre-planned trip to Europe later this month, the White House said Thursday, making his first foreign trip as president a tour of three great world religions. Trump made the announcement after meeting with Roman Catholic cardinals in the Oval Office Thursday, and during an event to mark the National Day of Prayer with an executive order on what he called "religious freedom."" Tolerance is the cornerstone of peace and that's why I'm proud to make a major and historic announcement this morning and to share with you that my first foreign trip as President of the United States will be to Saudi Arabia, then Israel, and then to a place that my cardinals love very much, Rome." But the White House clearly intends to send a signal by making his first visit to Saudi Arabia, home of the holiest sites in Islam, after controversial policies to suspend travel to the United States from six countries in the region in what critics called a " Muslim ban." There, Trump is expected to meet with leaders of the six countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council:  Bahrain,  Kuwait,  Oman,  Qatar,  Saudi Arabia, and the  United Arab Emirates." It is there that we will begin to construct a new foundation of cooperation and support with our Muslim allies to combat extremism, terrorism and violence, and to embrace a more just and hopeful future for young Muslims in their countries," Trump said. " Our task is not to dictate to others how to live, but to build a coalition of friends and partners who share the goal of fighting terrorism and bringing safety, opportunity and stability to the war- ravaged Middle East." The three-country tour comes before long-scheduled stops in Brussels for the NATO summit on May 25, and in Sicily for the gathering of major economic powers known as the Group of Seven, or G7, on May 27. The White House did not immediately announce dates and cities for the early legs of the trip, but the Vatican said Pope Francis would welcome Trump at the Apostolic Palace the morning May 24, followed by meetings with top Vatican diplomats. During the presidential election last year, Trump and Pope Francis clashed over immigration and Trump 's proposed border wall, but both have said they are looking forward to their meeting. The Israel announcement came one day after Trump met at the White House with Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas, part of an effort to somehow revive peace talks between the Palestinians and the Israelis. Trump has promised to move the U. S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. A 1995 law requires that move, but every president since has waived it in the interests of national security. Trump must sign a new waiver by June 1 or move the embassy.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/305488467/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~May-political-cartoons-from-the-USA-TODAY-Network/
May political cartoons from the USA TODAY Network  May political cartoons from the USA TODAY Network The cartoonist's homepage, greenvilleonline.com/opinion May political cartoons from the USA TODAY Network May political cartoons from the USA TODAY Network  The Putin- Trump bromance just keeps going. President Trump reached out to Russian President Vladimir Putin this week to talk Syria, North Korea and the Airbnb the two are going to share on Martha's Vineyard, comic Will Arnett says, usat.ly/2qy YMOW  Florida Rep. Byron Donalds has filed a bill that would undermine the state's open meetings law. # World Press Freedom Day.  Another Trump history gaffe? Really? First we're expected to believe that former-slave-turned-abolitionist Frederick Douglass is still alive. Now we learn that Andrew Jackson, president from 1829 to 1837, was angry over a Civil War that he knew nothing about because, well, he was long dead when it happened, usat.ly/2qugy5 T  The primary for Jackson, Miss., mayoral race is May 2, 2017. The cartoonist's homepage, clarionledger.com/opinion  Congrats! You survived Trump 's first 100 days. But can you survive the remainder of the four years? usat.ly/2pn PUw T  Matt Bevin is governor of Kentucky, and Braidy Industries says it will build an aluminum rolling mill in South Shore, Ky., near Portsmouth, Ohio. The cartoonist's homepage, courier-journal.com/opinion  Rep. Mark Meadows, R- N. C., is chairman of the House Freedom Caucus. The cartoonist's homepage, citizen-times.com/voices-views
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310618141/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~This-week-in-OnPolitics-Whats-important-is-that-everyone-tried-their-best/
This week in On Politics: What's important is that everyone tried their best  This week in On Politics: What's important is that everyone tried their best Sometimes it's exhausting doing nothing at all. This week in On Politics: What's important is that everyone tried their best This week in On Politics: What's important is that everyone tried their best Brett Mc Ginness  Published 8:00 p.m. ET May 5, 2017 | Updated 8:09 p.m. ET May 5, 2017 President Trump signs an executive order that the White House says 'promotes free speech and religious liberty' and participates in a National Day of Prayer event in the Rose Garden of the White House Thursday.( Photo: JIM LO SCALZO, EPA)  CONNECTTWEETLINKEDIN What a week! First, Congress passed a budget that pretended to fund The Wall, then President Trump practiced his penmanship by writing a meaningless executive order, then the House played "let's pretend we're repealing Obamacare." Sometimes it's exhausting doing nothing at all. It's Friday, the weekend is here, and it's time for one last edition of On Politics Today,  USA TODAY 's politics newsletter. ( Subscribe here.)' Repeal and Replace' practice run goes flawlessly President Trump , Speaker Paul Ryan and other congressional Republicans celebrate in the Rose Garden of the White House following the House vote to repeal Obamacare on May 4, 2017. ( Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/ Getty Images) Celebrating the House's passage of the American Health Care Act, or despairing at what's in it? Put away your party hats and/or sadness hats for now; the U. S. Senate might just start the whole thing over from scratch anyway. ( Seriously, it's weird that you have a sadness hat.) The bill the House passed this week was designed to bring in just enough votes from the camps that had abandoned the previous attempt to repeal and replace, mainly blue-state moderate Republicans and fiscal conservatives who only wanted to repeal the Affordable Care Act, release insurance companies from regulation and let the free market just do its thing. A late rewrite allowed insurance companies to charge more to the elderly and those with a laundry list of pre-existing conditions, but also provided $8 billion to help those patients pay their premiums. But now Senate Republicans are in the driver's seat, and they've been far less vociferous about repealing the ACA than their House compatriots. It's possible they could make a few minor tweaks to the House bill, but it's more likely they'll just treat it like a hastily assembled vision board. " We want to get it right," said Sen. Lamar Alexander, chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. " There will be no artificial deadlines." Religious liberty executive order has all the legal weight of a promise ring   President Donald Trump signed an executive order Thursday easing federal restrictions on some political activities by religious groups. It was hailed by supporters as a boost for religious freedom, but condemned by critics as a divisive step. ( May 4)  APEarlier this year, a leaked draft of an executive order on religious liberty seemed to imply that President Trump would allow hospitals to prevent same-sex spouses from visiting their partners in the hospital and allow federal employees not to process benefits for same-sex spouses if they had religious objections to doing so. Some religious conservatives hoped the long-rumored order even would allow businesses to refuse to serve members of the LGBTQ community (think bakeries not making cakes for same-sex weddings) or refuse to issue marriage licenses (think Kim Davis). Then on Thursday, Trump issued an executive order that included ... somewhat less than that. It promised to "vigorously enforce Federal law's robust protections for religious freedom" and "to the greatest extent practicable and to the extent permitted by law, respect and protect the freedom of persons and organizations to engage in religious and political speech." In other words, it promised to obey existing laws. It's the gall bladder of presidential orders -- something that may have originally served some sort of purpose, but nobody can figure out what. Gregory S. Baylor, senior counsel at the Alliance Defending Freedom, said Trump 's order offers "no specific relief" to people "threatened with the effective closure of their family-run business for simply expressing a religious point of view on marriage that differed from that of the federal government." Oh, and the ACLU isn't even bothering to fight it. Congress to Obama: OK, you've had enough   The former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee is telling Barack Obama critics to mind their own business. Susana Victoria Perez (@susana_vp) has more.  Buzz60 Last July, Congress passed a bill limiting pensions for former presidents once they had made $400,000 or more in a year. When the bipartisan, otherwise-unopposed bill made it to President Obama's desk, it was met with a surprise veto, saying the bill would have "unintended consequences" and "impose onerous and unreasonable burdens." Fast-forward to today, and Citizen  Obama has accepted a gig making a speech to Wall Street execs that will pay him -- get this -- exactly $400,000. And it looks like the old bill's sponsors, both Republicans and Democrats, might still be on board with the limits." The Obama hypocrisy on this issue is revealing," said Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R- Utah, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and sponsor of the 2016 bill. " His veto was very self-serving." Original co-sponsor Rep. Elijah Cummings ( D- MD) "definitely supports the concept, and if we can work out the technical issues with the bill that arose late in the last Congress, we expect he would strongly support it again," said spokeswoman Jennifer Hoffman Werner. Phew! Looks like Obama only has to write one speech this year. More from Politics Land If he were alive for them, Andrew Jackson probably would disapprove of all the wars you disapprove of Comey 'mildly nauseous' that he may have affected presidential election. AHCA deems mild nausea a pre-existing condition Bernie whiffs on Trump -hacking opportunity Thursday afternoon, MSNBC showed Sen. Bernie Sanders a clip of  President Trump praising  Australia's health care -- which is actually universal health care, aka Bernie's dream scenario. Bernie Sanders cracked up and said "we'll quote you" after Trump praised Australia's universal health care Buzz Feed News (@ Buzz Feed News) May 5, 2017 What Bernie said:  Laughed, then said he was going to use Trump 's words against the AHCA on the floor of the Senate. What Bernie wishes he said: " Damn, he's right. HE' S RIGHT, EVERYONE! Look, Trump 's a smart businessman and a great judge of value.  Mr. President, if you're listening, I want to set aside partisanship and work out the details of Trump Care based on the Australian model."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310561683/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-issues-broad-Bushstyle-signing-statement-on-spending-bill/
President Trump 's signing statement on spending bill resurrects Bush-era strategy  Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Trump issues a " Bush-style signing statement" on a $1.1 trillion spending bill, a signal he intends to use the tool to vigorously defend what he sees as the president's constitutional authority. Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill  Trump issues a " Bush-style signing statement" on a $1.1 trillion spending bill, a signal he intends to use the tool to vigorously defend what he sees as the president's constitutional authority.  Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Gregory Korte  Published 6:59 p.m. ET May 5, 2017 | Updated 7:51 p.m. ET May 5, 2017 President Trump boards Air Force One at Andrews Air Force base Thursday for a weekend in New York and New Jersey.( Photo: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI, AFP/ Getty Images)  — President Trump signed a $1.1 trillion spending bill on Friday, and used the opportunity to attach a signing statement that asserted presidential prerogatives on issues of war powers, marijuana and government spending. The signing statement was Trump 's first as president, and could signal that he intends to use the tool to vigorously defend what he sees as the president's constitutional authority. Through the statement, Trump reserved the right to disregard 89 different provisions in the spending bill." This is a George W. Bush-style signing statement," said Christopher Kelley, a Miami University political scientist whose work on Bush's signing statements brought attention to a formerly obscure presidential tool. " It's a line-by line series of objections that lead to dozens and dozens of challenges that you just did not see in the Obama administration." A signing statement is a written pronouncement issued by a president as he signs a bill into law. They can be used to explain the president's positions, prod Congress to pass more legislation, or to put the president on record raising constitutional issues with a bill. But during the Bush administration, critics said the practice allowed the president to rewrite laws he disagreed with after he had signed them — rather than vetoing bills and sending them back to Congress. Among the provisions that Trump said he was reserving the right to disregard:► Marijuana: The spending law forbids the Justice Department from spending any money to prevent 44 states from implementing their own laws on medical marijuana. Yet Trump said that law conflicts with his constitutional responsibility to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed." leaving open the possibility that his administration could challenge state and local medical marijuana laws.► Weapons systems: Several provisions forbid the administration from canceling weapons programs, such as the RQ-4 B Global Hawk or A-10 aircraft. Another forbids the president from funding nuclear-armed interceptors — a form of missile defense that uses nuclear weapons to shoot down other nuclear weapons. Trump said those provisions "unconstitutionally limit my ability to modify the command and control of military personnel and materiel."► White House "czars:" Congress had blocked the president from hiring certain Obama-era White House "czars," including key policy advisers on health care, climate change, the auto industry and urban affairs. Trump said he has "well-established authority to supervise and oversee the executive branch and to obtain advice in furtherance of this supervisory authority."► Affirmative action: Congress has established programs giving preferences based on race and sex in hiring, grants and government contracts. Trump said he would interpret those provisions "consistent with the requirement to afford equal protection of the laws" under the Constitution.► Guantanamo Bay: Trump even raised issues with provisions trying to restrict the president's ability to release suspected terrorists from the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba — although his objection is different from that of President Barack Obama. Trump said the law "does not include an exception for when a court might order the release of a detainee to certain countries," and therefore said he was reserving the right to disregard it. Jennifer Hing, a spokeswoman for the House Appropriations Committee, said the committee was still reviewing the president's signing statement to determine how to respond. The spending bill keeps the government open through Sept. 30, avoiding a government shutdown through a series of compromises on contentious issues like a border wall, immigration enforcement and funding for Planned Parenthood.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310447075/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trumps-Army-secretary-nominee-withdraws-over-gay-comments/
Donald Trump 's Army nominee Mark Green withdraws over gay comments  Trump 's Army secretary nominee withdraws over gay comments Mark Green, nominated to be secretary of the Army, withdrew from consideration on Friday Trump 's Army secretary nominee withdraws over gay comments  Trump 's Army secretary nominee withdraws over gay comments Michael Collins  Newslook Tennessee State Sen. Mark Green withdrew his nomination to be secretary of the Army on Friday afternoon.( Photo: Erik Schelzig, AP)  —  President Donald Trump ’s choice for Army secretary withdrew his nomination Friday afternoon after weeks of withering criticism over past statements he has made about gays and lesbians, Muslims and other groups. Mark Green, a veteran and Republican state senator from Tennessee, issued a statement in which he said he was pulling his name from consideration to avoid creating distractions for Trump ,  Defense Secretary James  Mattis "and many others, and their desire to Make America Great Again by preparing our military to face the many challenges in the world for the safety and security of our nation." And unfortunately due to false and misleading attacks against me, this nomination has become a distraction," he said. " Tragically, my life of public service and my Christian beliefs have been mischaracterized and attacked by a few on the other side of the aisle for political gain. " Green is Trump ’s second choice for Army secretary to withdraw. Trump ’s first pick, Vincent Viola, the billionaire owner of the Florida panthers, withdrew his nomination in February, citing difficulties in divesting himself from his businesses. Trump then nominated Green for the job in April. Almost immediately, Green, a physician, Iraq war veteran and West Point graduate who was deployed three times overseas, came under fire from advocacy groups for gays and lesbians and other minority groups over controversial comments he had made in the past. Multiple LGBT groups have denounced Green’s nomination, calling him “a social issues warrior” who, as a Tennessee legislator, has worked to undermine LGBT rights. One of the groups, GLAAD, released audio from a radio program in which Green — discussing his sponsorship of a bill that would have forced transgender students to use the bathroom that matches their legal sex rather than their actual gender — said his responsibility as a state senator was to “crush evil.” Others have pointed to Green’s sponsorship of legislation that would allow mental health practitioners to refuse to treat LGBT patients and his support for a bill that would effectively bar transgender high school and college students from using public restrooms.“ If you poll the psychiatrists, they're going to tell you transgender is a disease," Green said at a Chattanooga Tea Party event last September. In addition to his record on LGBT issues, Green was facing opposition from a couple of Muslim groups — Muslim Advocates and the Council on American- Islamic Relations — for comments he has made that the organizations consider derogatory toward the Islamic faith and its followers. Read more: Sen. John Mc Cain: Army secretary nominee's past comments 'very concerning' Meet President Trump 's new Army secretary nominee At the Chattanooga event, Green said he doesn’t believe students should learn about Muslim beliefs and religious practices and claimed erroneously that Muslims don’t believe Jesus “was born from a virgin.” Sen. John Mc Cain, the Republican chairman of Armed Services Committee, which was to conduct Green’s confirmation hearing, called his comments “very concerning” and said he needed to explain himself to the committee. Several other members of the committee said they, too, found Green’s comments disturbing. In the House, nearly three dozen Democrats sent a letter asking the Senate to reject Green’s nomination, arguing he cannot be trusted to ensure that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender soldiers are able to serve without discrimination or harassment. A Pentagon official under former President Barack Obama and a group of 21 current and former faculty members at military service academies, war colleges and other military universities also came out against Green’s nomination, citing his history “of extreme statements and actions” which they said pose a “serious threat” to the military’s core values. Sen. Tammy Duckworth, D- Ill., a former Army helicopter pilot, tweeted  after Green announced his withdrawal that while she respects his service "he is not fit to lead the Army & made the right decision to withdraw his name frm consideration." Green is the second Tennessean to withdraw his nomination for a position in Trump ’s administration. Andrew Puzder, a fast-food magnate whom Trump had chosen to lead the Department of Labor, pulled his name from consideration in February amid questions about his personal life, the business practices at some of his restaurants and revelations that he once employed an undocumented housekeeper. Trump later filled the post with Alexander Acosta, whom the Senate confirmed in April.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310778926/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Richard-Burr-and-Mark-Warner-seek-records-from-Trump-associates-in-Russia-probe/
Richard Burr and Mark Warner seek records from Trump associates in Russia probe  Richard Burr and Mark Warner seek records from Trump associates in Russia probe Senate Intelligence Committee wants records of meetings, communications since Trump announced candidacy Richard Burr and Mark Warner seek records from Trump associates in Russia probe  Senate Intelligence Committee wants records of meetings, communications since Trump announced candidacy  Richard Burr and Mark Warner seek records from Trump associates in Russia probe Bartholomew D Sullivan  Senate committee is investigating Russian meddling in 2016 presidential race Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Republican Richard Burr ( R) and ranking member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Democrat Mark Warner ( L) speak with one another while witnesses testify during a recent  —  The Senate intelligence committee is asking at least four former Trump campaign associates to disclose any meetings they had with “any Russian official or representative of Russian business interests” by next Tuesday. The committee is in the midst of investigating Russian meddling in last year’s presidential election and possible collusion by Trump campaign officials or associates. The written requests, first reported by The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times Friday afternoon, also ask the former associates to make themselves available for committee staff interviews at mutually agreeable times. They also seek all communications records they have, including email and text messages, with Russian officials or business interests and any information regarding their “financial and real estate holdings related to Russia” between June 15, 2015 and Jan. 20, 2017. Those dates bracket the dates of Donald Trump ’s announcement that he would seek the presidency and his inauguration. The Times said the letters were sent to Trump associates Roger J. Stone, Carter Page, former National Security Adviser Michael T. Flynn and former Trump campaign manager and chairman Paul J. Manafort Jr. and were signed by Sens. Richard Burr, R- N. C., the committee’s chairman, and Mark Warner, D- Va., its ranking member. Stone appears to have had prior knowledge of Wikileak’s plans to release email messages hacked from the Democratic National Committee that is now widely believed to have been the work of Russian intelligence. Page was the target of a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant last year after officials concluded he was working as a Russian agent after leaving the Trump campaign. Podesta suggests Trump campaign in cahoots with the Russians The committee asked for all records of meetings by next Tuesday and of records of communication by May 19. USA Today requests to Manafort Jr.’s lawyer, Reginald J. Brown, were responded to by his crisis communications spokesman, Jason Maloni, who declined to provide the committee’s letter. Staff interviews with the four, among others, have been anticipated since the Senate Committee began its probe. Parallel inquiries are being conducted by the House intelligence committee and the FBI. The Senate Judiciary Committee heard from FBI director James Comey on Wednesday in an open session and the House intelligence committee heard from him on Thursday in a closed session. Comey has confirmed the FBI is looking into the Russian meddling. The Senate Judiciary Committee’s crime and terrorism subcommittee is scheduled to hear from Former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates on Monday who can expect to be asked about how she learned about Flynn’s communications with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the transition. Those contacts led to Flynn’s subsequent firing. Read more: Trump 's business network reached alleged Russian mobsters
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310667934/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Iowa-high-court-halts-states-new-abortion-constraints/
Iowa's new abortion restrictions temporarily halted by state Supreme Court  Iowa high court halts state's new abortion constraints The law, signed Friday, requires a 72-hour wait for abortions at any stage of pregnancy and prohibits most abortions in Iowa after 20 weeks. Iowa high court halts state's new abortion constraints  The law, signed Friday, requires a 72-hour wait for abortions at any stage of pregnancy and prohibits most abortions in Iowa after 20 weeks.  Iowa high court halts state's new abortion constraints  Rita Bettis of ACLU- Iowa and Suzanna de Baca discuss lawsuit aimed at blocking 72-hour wait for abortions  William Petroski/ The Register Drake University students Hannah Van Zee of Des Moines; Phoebe Clark of Lawrence, Kan.; Kate Gorden of Fargo, N. D.; and Clio Cullison of Minneapolis protest silently May 5, 2017, as characters from the Margaret Atwood novel " The Handmaid's Tale' at Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad's signing ceremony for a bill restricting abortions.( Photo: William Petroski, The Des Moines Register)  DES MOINES — The Iowa Supreme Court issued an emergency order Friday stopping enforcement of a new state law that imposes a 72-hour wait on abortions at any stage of pregnancy. Gov. Terry Branstad signed Senate File 471 at 8:30 a.m. CT Friday, and the state's highest court responded less two hours later by granting a temporary injunction at the request of Planned Parenthood of the Heartland and the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa. Justice David Wiggins signed the order. The drama over the new abortion restrictions followed the Thursday denial of a request for a temporary injunction from Judge Jeffrey Farrell in Polk County District Court. Planned Parenthood's lawyer said the organization had 44 patients scheduled for abortions in Iowa, including 33 medication abortion patients. Planned Parenthood had contended that provisions of the new state law violate the Iowa Constitution, citing a lack of due process and equal protection rights. Besides a 72-hour waiting period, the law will require women to make two trips to a doctor to obtain an abortion, she said.► Thursday: Judge won't block Iowa law on 3-day wait for abortions► Thursday: Planned Parenthood asks to join suit against Kentucky abortion law► Wednesday: Tennessee lawmakers pass 20-week abortion ban" This order immediately and temporarily blocks the challenged provisions of the law: the 72-hour minimum waiting period and medically unnecessary additional appointment," said Rita Bettis, ACLU- Iowa's legal director. Twenty-seven other states have some kind of waiting period though most are a single day, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a private research group that supports abortion rights. Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Utah have 72-hour wait periods; South Dakota's 72 hours specifically do not include weekends and state holidays.“ We are seeing for the first time, quite possibly in Iowa history, a bill that will actually save lives.” Jenifer Bowen, Iowa Right to Life Suzanna de Baca, chief executive officer of Planned Parenthood of the Heartland, said the Supreme Court's temporary injunction allowed dozens of women to access the care they needed. However, in the two hours from  Branstad's signing of the law to the injunction, havoc was wreaked on many patients’ lives, she said." One woman had driven seven hours to her appointment only to be told she couldn’t have the procedure today. Others were angry and upset at the intrusion into their lives," de Baca said. " Our staff had to call some patients back who had just been told they would be unable to have a procedure today." Wiggins' order said the temporary injunction prohibits enforcement of the provisions until the high court has an opportunity to review a response from the Iowa Attorney General's Office. The response is due by noon Monday. The Iowa Supreme Court then will consider whether the injunction should remain in effect. Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Attorney General Tom Miller, said Friday that a response was being prepared. Earlier Friday morning, more than 50 Iowans opposed to abortion applauded as Branstad signed the legislation, which also will ban most abortions in Iowa 20 weeks after conception.► April: Kentucky's last remaining abortion clinic won't close ... for now► March: Iowa Republicans reverse course on 'fetal heartbeat' abortion bill  Fourteen other states — Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin — also have codified that restriction in recent years, according to Guttmacher Institute research. Two additional states, Mississippi and North Carolina, have 20-week bans that calculate fetal age from a woman's last period, effectively shortening gestation by two weeks, and Tennessee's governor has a similar bill on his desk. Branstad praised Iowa's new law as one of the "most pro-life bills" to pass the Iowa Legislature in recent years.“ This is blatantly unconstitutional. It completely disregards the needs of women in Iowa and completely ignores the reason why anyone would need or want an abortion after a 20-week mark.” Phoebe Clark, Lawrence, Kan." I have been fighting for the unborn since I ran for the Legislature in 1972, and I have not stopped. I am really pleased with this General Assembly and the progress that was made," Branstad said. " I think that this year was really a banner year for the pro-life movement. History was made this session." Groups opposed to abortion celebrated the enactment of the new law, which took effect immediately, and predicted it will withstand a court challenge. Jenifer Bowen, a leader of Iowa Right to Life, said signing of the legislation marked an "amazing, historic day" for groups dedicated to protecting the sanctity of life. " We are seeing for the first time, quite possibly in Iowa history, a bill that will actually save lives," Bowen said. " Babies 20 weeks in the womb will now be protected. We are incredibly excited about this opportunity and we are energized to continue to educate Iowans." Bob Vander Plaats, president and chief executive of a conservative Christian group called  The Family Leader, said his organization was part of a coalition during the 2017 Legislature's session that sought laws declaring life begins at conception and to stop taxpayer financing for abortion providers. While the legislation Branstad signed doesn't prevent all abortions, he believes that it represents a step forward. Vander Plaats also said he is optimistic Iowa's courts will uphold the constitutionality of the new law against detractors' claims that it violates women's rights." We believe the very same constitution protects the sanctity of life," he said.► March: Is abortion pill reversal a 2nd chance or just chance?► March: Women wear ' Handmaid's Tale' robes in Texas Senate During the bill-signing ceremony, four Drake University students stood silently in protest, wearing white bonnets and red capes. They were portraying characters described in the novel  The Handmaid's Tale by author Margaret Atwood, in which some women are kept for reproductive purposes by the ruling class in an era of declining births." We feel that the legislation that Branstad is signing puts us in the same position as the handmaids," said Drake junior  Hannah Van Zee, 21, of Des Moines.  Phoebe Clark, 20, a Drake junior from Lawrence, Kan., said she views the Iowa law as state-sponsored reproductive coercion." This is blatantly unconstitutional," she said. " It completely disregards the needs of women in Iowa and completely ignores the reason why anyone would need or want an abortion after a 20-week mark." Follow William Petroski on Twitter: @ William Petroski
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310690976/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-wasnt-actually-endorsing-Australias-universal-health-care-White-House-says/
 Trump Australia's universal health care, White House says  Trump wasn't actually endorsing Australia's universal health care, White House says President Trump wasn’t actually endorsing Australia’s government-funded health care system as a model for the United States when he called it "better health care,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders clarified on Friday. Trump wasn't actually endorsing Australia's universal health care, White House says  President Trump wasn’t actually endorsing Australia’s government-funded health care system as a model for the United States when he called it "better health care,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders clarified on Friday.  Trump wasn't actually endorsing Australia's universal health care, White House says Maureen Groppe  Asked about President Donald Trump 's comments regarding Australia's health care system, Principal Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said that Trump was complimenting a foreign leader. ( May 5)  AP WASHINGTON–  President Trump wasn’t actually endorsing Australia’s government-funded health care system as a model for the United States when he called it "better health care,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders clarified on Friday.“ What works in Australia may not work in the United States,” Sanders told reporters. “ He was complimenting the prime minister and we’re focused on putting a health care plan in place that works here.” Trump met with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull Thursday hours after the  House passed a bill to repeal and replace parts of the Affordable Care Act." It's going to be fantastic health care," Trump said. " I shouldn't say this to our great gentleman and my friend from Australia because you have better health care than we do." After the briefing, Trump added his own explanation via Twitter of his praise for Australia's universal health care. Of course the Australians have better healthcare than we do --everybody does. Obama Care is dead! But our healthcare will soon be great.— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump ) May 5, 2017 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated an earlier version of the bill would result in 24 million fewer people having insurance. The House voted on a revised version, which would allow states to waive a requirement that insurance companies charge sick people the same rates as healthy ones, before the CBO could estimate its impact on people's access to care, effect on premiums, and overall cost to taxpayers.“ That’s not something that’s held us back,” Sanders said of the strategy to move forward without an updated assessment. “ I think I know the Gospel pretty well and I’d say the CBO is not the Gospel. They’ve been wrong before and they can certainly be wrong again." As the bill moves through the Senate, Sanders said the White House expects changes, but the “main pillars” of the bill to remain the same. Those include, she said, lowering costs, creating competition and giving states flexibility to make their own decisions. The CBO estimated that premiums would first rise then eventually fall under the original GOP bill, in part because insurers could offer skimpier plans. Premium changes would vary by age with costs going down for younger customers and up for older ones. Asked if Trump will guarantee that sicker and older people won’t face higher costs, Sanders said, " That’s the whole point of this bill, is to lower costs across the board... That would be the goal and, certainly, the priority of the president." As Trump put it in his weekly address, " It will be great healthcare, and your premiums will come down, and your deductibles will come down. So you’ll have better healthcare at a lower cost." President Trump meets with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull aboard the USS Intrepid, a decommissioned aircraft carrier docked in the Hudson River in New York. ( Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP Images)
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310372265/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Amid-opioid-epidemic-White-House-may-cut-drug-control-office-budget/
Drug office budget cuts being considered by Trump White House  Amid opioid epidemic, White House may cut drug control office budget Budget cuts are apparently being eyed for Office of National Drug Control Policy Amid opioid epidemic, White House may cut drug control office budget  Amid opioid epidemic, White House may cut drug control office budget Deirdre Shesgreen  President Donald Trump campaigned across the country promising to fix the opioid crisis, but public health advocates say his early moves are poised to make it far worse.  USA TODAY President Donald Trump ( C), New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie ( L) and Attorney General Jeff Sessions ( R) attend a panel discussion on an opioid and drug abuse in the Roosevelt Room of the White House March 29, 2017.( Photo: Pool, Getty Images) — In the midst of an opioid addiction epidemic, the Trump administration is considering a plan that would gut the Office of National Drug Control Policy, a White House office that directs the country’s drug prevention efforts. The president's budget office is proposing to slash the drug agency’s budget by 95 percent, according to a letter the ONDCP’s acting director, Richard Baum, sent to employees. In his letter, obtained by USA TODAY , Baum warned that the move would be “very discouraging for our nation's effort to address drug abuse.”  He said the budget plan would zero out two programs designed to combat drug trafficking and to fund local anti-drug efforts. Baum said he was working to reverse the proposed cuts." These drastic proposed cuts are frankly heartbreaking and, if carried out, would cause us to lose many good people who contribute greatly to ONDCP's mission and core activities," he wrote. " We hope to turn this around." The plan was first reported by Politico. An internal White House document obtained by USA TODAY says the proposal would create a “smaller, more streamlined” drug control office that could more effectively direct drug-control policy.“ This change will allow ONDCP to focus on identifying priorities and coordinating interagency efforts,” the White House document states. The cuts would allow the administration to “better address the top drug threats, including the opioid epidemic.” That document also suggests that the two programs targeted for elimination — the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas ( HIDTA) program and the Drug Free Communities program — are duplicative. HIDTA provides federal money to help local law enforcement officials in areas most adversely affected by drug trafficking. It is very popular among members of  Congress, some of whom have worked hard to get their local communities designed as “high-intensity” and thus eligible for federal funds. The White House document says the initiative has grown exponentially, from about 5 regions receiving funds in 1988 to 28 now, at a cost of $250 million a year.“ Additionally, the HIDTA program is duplicative of other federal efforts that encourage and fund” anti-drug efforts, the White House budget document states. A White House spokeswoman, Sarah Sanders, downplayed the possible budget move." When it comes to the opioid epidemic, the president has been extremely clear. This is a top priority for him," Sanders told reporters. She said the White House's proposed budget is not final. " I certainly wouldn’t get ahead of conversations about the budget," she said. " The bigger point here is the president has been very clear that the opioid epidemic in this country is huge priority for him. Something he is certainly very focused on tackling." Any move to kill the federal drug control office or slash its budget would likely be met with fierce resistance from members of Congress, who have the final say on such spending matters.“ I’ve known and worked with our drug czars for more than 20 years and this agency is critical to our efforts to combat drug abuse in general, and this opioid epidemic, in particular," Sen. Rob Portman, R- Ohio, said in a statement on Friday. He noted that the office oversees a program he helped create: the Drug Free Communities Act, which he said has provided more than $1 billion to community drug coalitions around the country over the last 20 years." We have a heroin and prescription drug crisis in this country and we should be supporting efforts to reverse this tide, not proposing drastic cuts to those who serve on the front lines of this epidemic," Portman said. Contributing: Maureen Groppe
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310415389/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Happy-Doggy-Day-Interior-Department/
Dogs spend the day at the Interior Department  Happy Doggy Day, Interior Department! The Interior Department on Friday hosted its first Bring Your Dog to Work Day. Happy Doggy Day, Interior Department!  Happy Doggy Day, Interior Department! Jessica Estepa Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and his dog Ragnar, a two-year-old Havanese, in his office May 5, 2017 at the Interior Department in Washington, DC. ( Photo: Alex Wong, Getty Images) The Interior Department on Friday hosted its first Bring Your Dog to Work Day. And it was just as adorable as you would imagine it to be. Today is the day! @ Interior has their first ever # Doggy Day! Meet some of the early risers. Secretary Ryan Zinke (@ Secretary Zinke) May 5, 2017 There's so much excitement at @ Interior for # Doggy Day today. Secretary Ryan Zinke (@ Secretary Zinke) May 5, 2017 Nothing brings people together like # Doggie Day. I got to meet 80+ @ Interior employees and dogs today. Secretary Ryan Zinke (@ Secretary Zinke) May 5, 2017 The initiative was started by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who believed bringing dogs to work would help boost morale, according to department spokesman Paul Ross. ( Indeed, Trump spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Friday that she'd take any reporters down to Interior for a field trip because "everybody here could use a little stress reliever.") Zinke met with around 80 employees who brought their dogs to work, including Ross's own poodle, Pax. Everyone had a chance to take a photo with the secretary and his own pup, a Havanese named Ragnar. Any Interior employee who missed their opportunity to bring their dogs to work doesn't need to worry — another Bring Your Dog to Work Day is set for Sept. 1. Some on Twitter took the # Doggy Day mania to show off their dogs on public lands and voice support for national monuments. Zinke is set to review more than two dozen national monuments, per an executive order from President Trump , leading to worries that the monument designations may be rescinded.@ Secretary Zinke@ Interior Dogs in the West love our National Monuments # Doggy Day# Monuments For All# Ibarkfor Bears Ears Shara (@ Going Places West) May 5, 2017 Every day is a # Doggy Day for Mori in her backyard monument. She's looking forward to @ Secretary Zinke visit next week! # IBark For Bears Earsjoshewing (@joshewing) May 5, 2017@ Secretary Zinke@ Interior Oh boy, # Doggy Day! Almost time to go to #publiclands w my human! I hope # Bears Ears# Grand Staircase stay protected! # UTPol# Ibarkforbearsears Conserve NM (@ Conserve NM) May 5, 2017
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310651210/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~FDA-denies-Fox-News-is-the-only-show-allowed-at-its-headquarters/
Food and Drug Administration denies reports it shows only Fox News at headquarters  FDA denies Fox News is the only show allowed at its headquarters The Food and Drug Administration batted down reports that the Trump administration mandated the agency to only display Fox News at its headquarters FDA denies Fox News is the only show allowed at its headquarters  The Food and Drug Administration batted down reports that the Trump administration mandated the agency to only display Fox News at its headquarters  FDA denies Fox News is the only show allowed at its headquarters Jessica Estepa  The Food and Drug Administration batted down reports that the Trump administration mandated the agency to only display Fox News on TVs in the common areas at its headquarters. This Wednesday, Oct. 14, 2015, file photo shows the U. S. Food and Drug Administration campus, in Silver Spring, Md. ( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP) An email sent this week to researchers in FDA's  Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research was leaked to reporters on Friday, causing a commotion on Twitter about whether the White House was trying to control the news sources consumed and displayed at the federal agency. According to the email, a staffer asked why TVs were no longer displaying CNN. FDA is now all Fox News, all the time. Email sent yesterday to CBER, the biologics section at # FDA Paul Thacker (@thackerpd) May 5, 2017" The reason for the change is that a decision from the current administration administrative officials has requested that all monitors, under our control, on the White Oak Campus, display FOX news," the email reads. " Sorry for the inconvenience, but I am unable to change any of the monitors to any other news source at this time." The email was sent by a customer service representative from the agency's facilities office, according to FDA. However, an FDA spokeswoman denied that the administration had made such a request, insisting that a variety of news stations play on its TVs, including CNN, MSNBC and Fox News." There was no directive or memorandum from the administration that went out to employees about broadcast news channels displaying on monitors in common areas throughout the FDA's White Oak campus," she said in an email. FDA's White Oak campus, which serves as the agency's headquarters, is located in Silver Spring, Md.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310544598/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Are-asylum-seekers-being-turned-away-at-the-border/
Border agents are turning away asylum seekers before assessing, report says  Are asylum seekers being turned away at the border? An independent nonprofit group claims it has documented border agents illegally turning away asylum applicants at ports of entry along the U. S.- Mexico border. Are asylum seekers being turned away at the border?  An independent nonprofit group claims it has documented border agents illegally turning away asylum applicants at ports of entry along the U. S.- Mexico border.  A look at the socioeconomic and environmental impact of a 2,000-mile long wall at the U. S.- Mexico border.  Central American migrants walk in October toward the San Ysidro Port of Entry in Tijuana, Mexico, across the border from San Diego, where they were scheduled to be interviewed by U. S. Customs and Border Protection officers in hopes of entering the U. S. even though they didn't have visas.( Photo: Nick Oza, The Arizona Republic)  In mid- February, a Guatemalan man approached U. S. border officials in Nogales. He had fled violence in his country and feared going back, so when he spoke to the officer at the De Concini port of entry, he requested asylum. Under U. S. law, Customs and Border Protection employees are supposed to register such statements, take the individual into custody, and eventually direct them to an asylum officer who assesses the validity of their claim. That's not what happened in this case, according to faith-based migrant-rights group Kino Border Initiative. The officer told the man that he would help him, but instead had him sign documents stating he was not admissible into the United States. The Guatemalan was then sent back to Mexico without what's known as a credible-fear screening.► Wednesday: Chanting protesters have peaceful dialogue with Border Patrol► Tuesday: Spending bill excludes border wall, but Trump declares victory anyway Joanna Williams, Kino Border Initiative's director of advocacy, said the case reflects a border agents' "systematic" practice during the last half of 2016 , coinciding with a spike in migrants arriving at the Arizona- Sonora border." Our staff spent a lot of time with individuals at the border, trying to pressure CBP to exercise and fulfill their legal obligation, which is to process asylum seekers and put them into a credible-fear screening process," she said. “ Our staff spent a lot of time with individuals at the border, trying to pressure CBP to exercise and fulfill their legal obligation, which is to process asylum seekers,” Joanna Williams, Kino Border Initiative A new report from an independent, nonprofit rights group claims the practice is widespread along the entire U. S.- Mexico border: U. S. officials turn away migrants seeking asylum at ports of entry, especially in California and south Texas. The situation appears to have improved on the Arizona border, activists say, though they are unclear on why.  This week, Human Rights First published its report documenting at least 125 cases of federal agents unlawfully turning away asylum seekers at the U. S.- Mexico border.  The reports' authors and researchers traveled to border communities in California, Arizona and Texas between February and April, where they interviewed migrants, staff at shelters, and attorneys and volunteers who assist asylum seekers.  The group said the number of people turned away unlawfully is likely much higher than its report states since many cases never are documented. Lead researcher Shaw Drake said advocates have expressed concern about CBP's handling of asylum seekers for some time, especially last summer, when thousands of Haitian migrants were stranded primarily on the California- Mexico border.► Sunday: How much does it cost to deport one migrant? It depends► April 25: U. S. undocumented migrant population stays flat for 8th straight year That occurred under the Obama administration. But the election of President Trump , who advocates for more immigration enforcement, appears to have emboldened officers to wrongfully turn away people, the report said. Freddy Perez, 26, flashes a peace sign through the border fence in Nogales, Ariz. ( Photo: David Wallace, The Arizona Republic) It accuses U. S. authorities of intimidating and deceiving asylum seekers by telling them things such as: " Trump says we don’t have to let you in,” or " You don't qualify," even though only asylum officers are authorized to make that determination." Since the beginning of this administration, we have continued to see a really alarming rate of complaints and concerns being raised ... across the border," Drake said. " For us, this is a threshold issue: If we can't guarantee meaningful access to protection ... then the very point of those systems are undermined." The report is also critical of Mexican immigration authorities, who it states are openly hostile and complicit with U. S. authorities at times in making it more difficult for asylum seekers to reach U. S. ports of entry. Mexican officials repeatedly made false claims that the U. S. was no longer granting asylum to discourage migrants from seeking protection, the report says. Human Rights First urged Mexican and U. S. officials to comply with laws granting unrestricted access to apply for asylum. They also called on the Department of Homeland Security's Office of the Inspector General to investigate border officers and on Congress to exercise greater oversight of the agency. ► April 21: Trump tells DREAMers to 'rest easy' — but one in Mexico can't► April 17: Trump 's new rules could swamp already backlogged immigration courts The Office of the Inspector General did not respond to requests for comment.  In a statement, Customs and Border Protection denied any change in policy toward asylum seekers, saying it adheres to U. S. and international law." If a CBP officer or agent encounters a U. S.-bound migrant at or between ports of entry, without legal papers, and the person expresses fear of being returned to his/her home country, our officers process them for an interview with an asylum officer with U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services," the statement read.“ If we can't guarantee meaningful access to protection ... then the very point of those systems are undermined.” Shaw Drake, Human Rights First The agency also denied any wrongdoing on the part of individual employees at the ports of entry." CBP officers do not determine or evaluate the validity of the fear expressed," the statement said. " As an agency, CBP adheres to law and policy on processing asylum claims and does not tolerate abuse of these policies." If the number of would-be asylum seekers being turned away in the Nogales area has declined, advocates are unsure why. Researchers said they found conflicting reports in Nogales on whether the situation had improved." More investigation needs to happen to determine whether the practice is as prevalent as we heard it was before," said Natasha Arnpriester, a researcher who traveled to Nogales in mid- April. In March, a new director took command of Nogales-area ports of entry. Researchers said it's unclear if he issued new directives or responded to complaints from advocates. " It would be wonderful to know if they actually took steps to alleviate the situation at the port. And obviously, we think port directors across the border should be doing the same thing if, in fact, the Nogales port is showing some leadership in this issue," Drake said.► March 31: What we now know about Donald Trump 's border wall► March 29: Trump 's travel ban could cost $18 B in U. S. tourism, analysis shows The Arizona Republic requested an interview with the Nogales port director, but the Customs and  Border Protection officials said he was unavailable. The report focuses on California and Texas but highlights the Arizona- Sonora border for violence and other dangers faced by migrants and asylum seekers face. The Mexico- U. S. border fence that separates Nogales, Sonora, left, from Nogales, Ariz., as seen on Feb. 24, 2017. ( Photo: David Wallace, The Arizona Republic) Last year, the Kino Border Initiative documented 754 cases of aggression against migrants and asylum seekers, including 105 incidents involving physical violence and 52 involving kidnapping. But that number reflects only migrants who were encountered and willing to report the abuse." We know it’s dramatically underreported," Williams said. " Most of the people we receive who say they’re victims of kidnapping or other crimes are completely unwilling to go to the police because they’re afraid that there will be retributions." A spokeswoman for Customs and Border Patrol in Arizona said the agency doesn't specifically track the number of asylum seekers at ports of entry. The number is included in a broader category of "inadmissables," which includes unaccompanied minors, Central American families, and Cuban and Haitian migrants. Since the start of the fiscal year, the number of "inadmissibles" at Arizona's ports of entry has dropped sharply from 2,291 in October to 592 in March. Follow  Rafael Carranza on Twitter: @ Rafael Carranza Migrants face desert dangers
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310497314/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~White-House-fires-its-chief-usher-the-first-woman-to-hold-the-job/
White House Chief usher Angella Reid, first woman to hold the job, fired  White House fires its chief usher, the first woman to hold the job The White House has fired its chief usher, Angella Reid, who was the first woman to hold the job. White House fires its chief usher, the first woman to hold the job  White House fires its chief usher, the first woman to hold the job Jessica Estepa  White House Chief Usher Angella Reid was dismissed. She was the first woman and second African- American to hold that position. Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more.  Buzz60 The White House has fired its chief usher, Angella Reid, who was the first woman to hold the job. Residence staff learned of the dismissal on Friday morning, the Washington Post reported. Reid, also the second African American to be chief usher, joined the White House in 2011, under President Obama. The job of the chief usher is to run the executive mansion, overseeing its staff and all major events at the residence and working closely with the first family. White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed Reid's dismissal at Friday's press briefing." We left on very good terms and wish her the very best and certainly hope for great things for her in the future," Sanders said, adding that the deputy chief usher would step into an acting role for now. The news came out while  President Trump , who famously fired people on The Apprentice, was in New Jersey for the weekend. While Sanders said it wasn't uncommon for staffs to transition between administrations, chief ushers typically hold their positions for longer tenures and through different presidencies. The last chief usher, Stephen Rochon, only served for four years. The first African American to hold the job, he left to accept a position at the Department of Homeland Security. Gary Walters served as chief usher from 1986 to 2007, and Rex Scouten held the job from 1969 to 1985. In this Oct. 18, 2011 file photo, the then-incoming White House chief usher Angella Reid is photographed in Lafayette Park across from the White House in Washington. The White House has fired Reid, the person who responsible for managing the residence and staff its and overseeing events. ( Photo: Carolyn Kaster, AP)

http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310148195/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Poll-Majority-of-people-want-shorter-presidential-campaigns/ Shorter presidential campaigns wanted by majority of Americans: poll  Poll: Majority of people want shorter presidential campaigns No matter where you fall on the political spectrum, you're likely to agree on one thing, according to a new poll: you want shorter presidential campaign cycles. Poll: Majority of people want shorter presidential campaigns  No matter where you fall on the political spectrum, you're likely to agree on one thing, according to a new poll: you want shorter presidential campaign cycles.  Poll: Majority of people want shorter presidential campaigns Jessica Estepa  President Donald Trump walks past Vice President Mike Pence before speaking at a rally in Harrisburg, Pa., Saturday, April 29, 2017. ( Photo: Patrick Semansky, AP) No matter where you fall on the political spectrum, you're likely to agree on one thing, according to a new poll: you want shorter presidential campaign cycles. A poll from the Center for Public Integrity and Ipsos found that 65% of Americans want to limit the length of presidential campaigns. Break that down by political party, and it still lines up: 71% of Democrats, 63% of Republicans and 66% of independents said they'd prefer shorter campaigns. However, they did disagree on what the length of presidential campaigns should be. Here's the breakdown:7% of Americans wanted presidential campaigns to start six weeks before Election Day13% want campaigns to start three months before27% want campaigns to start six months before32% want campaigns to start one year before8% want campaigns to start two years before5% want campaigns to start four years before The poll was conducted from April 21 to 24, surveying 1,005 adults around the United States. Looking back at the last election cycle, Ted Cruz was the first Republican to formally announce his candidacy in March 2015, nearly 20 months before Election Day, while Hillary Clinton was the first Democrat to do the same in April 2015. As for 2020? President Trump 's re-election campaign kicked off the day he was sworn into office, and he has since headlined rallies and launched ad campaigns. 
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310037956/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~questions-yet-to-be-answered-as-Senate-takes-on-health-care/
Obamacare repeal: 5 questions as GOP health care bill moves to Senate 5 questions yet to be answered as Senate takes on health care House Republicans passed the Obamacare repeal bill without a CBO report -- what will it say? Will the Senate start from scratch? Will town halls make a difference? 5 questions yet to be answered as Senate takes on health care  House Republicans passed the Obamacare repeal bill without a CBO report -- what will it say? Will the Senate start from scratch? Will town halls make a difference? 5 questions yet to be answered as Senate takes on health care  USA TODAY House Republicans prepare to leave Capitol Hill for the White House on May 4, 2017, after the Republican health care bill passed in the House.( Photo: Susan Walsh, AP)  The House has passed its version of an Obamacare repeal bill, and the Senate now gets to work. But as the legislative gears continue to grind, there are still some key developments to watch out for that could have a dramatic effect on the debate over repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act.1. Does CBO issue a terrible score of the House bill? The Congressional Budget Office’s March review of the first version of the House bill was a death blow. It concluded that the bill would lead to 24 million fewer people having health insurance by 2026, and even though  Republicans pointed out many of these would be people choosing not to be insured, the damage was done. House leaders raced the new version of the bill to a floor vote before CBO could issue a revised score, and White House press secretary Sean Spicer said it is “literally impossible” to estimate the impacts of legislation this complex. But if CBO still comes out with an analysis predicting a dramatic drop in the number of people insured or a dramatic increase in premiums, it will give the Senate more leverage to write a more moderate version of the bill.2. Does the administration withhold cost-sharing subsidies? Under the ACA, the federal government is paying insurers about $7 billion a year to reduce the out-of-pocket insurance costs for people who earn under 250% of the federal poverty limit. House Republicans had sued the Obama administration to stop those payments; the Trump administration has been temporarily funding the subsidies while the lawsuit is pending but has not said how long it will continue to do so.  Stopping those payments could prompt the explosion of the individual market that Republicans have predicted — and it could also create enough of a crisis to prompt the Senate to support the House bill.3. Does the Senate start over? Within minutes of House passage of the bill, moderate Senate Republicans were announcing that they would not be able to support it. Sen. Lamar Alexander, R- Tenn., who chairs the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions  Committee, said Thursday, " We want to take advantage of good ideas we find in the House bill ...  We’ll use it as a resource, but we’ll be writing our own bill.”  Writing a new bill could take months and would leave House leaders this summer with the same problem they faced this spring: convincing their most conservative wing to sign on to a bill that is not as dramatic a repeal as they want.4. Do more insurers drop out? President Trump has said the Affordable Care Act will collapse on its own because insurers will continue to walk away from the Obamacare exchanges, leaving no options for consumers to get coverage. If that happens quickly enough, it could increase the pressure on the Senate to move more quickly on a repeal plan so their constituents can find coverage options.  Trump cited Aetna’s Wednesday’s announcement that it would no longer offer individual insurance plans in Virginia as evidence of an Obamacare death spiral. The departure leaves 27 counties in the state with only one insurer, though that’s far better than Iowa, which is expected to lose the only insurer left selling individual plans in most of the state.5. Will there be more angry town halls? House members head home this weekend for a one-week recess, and it is worth watching how their constituents react to the bill they just passed. Town hall events have been raucous this year, with protesters attacking Republicans for trying to gut Obamacare. Now that they have actually passed a bill, will grateful Republicans come out to thank them, or will it just be more outrage? Contributing: Paul Singer, Erin Kelly, Maureen Groppe, Deirdre Shesgreen, Jayne O' Donnell Read more: In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go Health care vote puts pressure on dozens of vulnerable GOP reps What health insurance covers could change dramatically if AHCA becomes law What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? These House Republicans were key to the health care bill
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309417218/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~These-House-Republicans-were-key-to-the-health-care-bill/
Obamacare repeal: These are the Republicans who were key  These House Republicans were key to the health care bill Abouty two dozen House Republicans who had opposed an earlier version of the American Health Care Act switched their position and voted for the revised legislation, assuring the bill's passage Thursday. These House Republicans were key to the health care bill  Abouty two dozen House Republicans who had opposed an earlier version of the American Health Care Act switched their position and voted for the revised legislation, assuring the bill's passage Thursday.  These House Republicans were key to the health care bill Bill Theobald  USA TODAY Rep. Darrell Issa, R- Calif., voted for the revised version of the American Health Care Act.( Photo: Justin Sullivan, Getty Images)  — Nearly two dozen House Republicans who had opposed an earlier version of the American Health Care Act switched their position and voted for the revised legislation, assuring the bill's passage  Thursday. Those converts allowed the bill, which was pulled from the House floor  March 24 because Republican leaders realized they lacked the votes for passage, to squeak by on a 217-213 vote. Among those who overcame earlier concerns and voted for the legislation are several Republicans thought to be vulnerable in the 2018 congressional elections , including Rep. Darrell Issa of California. Issa, one of the wealthiest members of Congress and former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, barely won re-election in 2016 .“ Today, we made good on our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Issa said in a statement released after the vote. “ Let's stop pretending Obamacare is going to fix itself or that somehow, someday, it’s going to get better.” Earlier, Issa had said he was "not prepared" to vote for the original version of the Republican's health care bill. He didn’t cite specific aspects of the bill he objected to but rather said he thought Republicans could do better. Just two days ago, Issa provided a terse response when confronted by reporters who asked him what his position was on the new version of the bill.“ None of your business,” Issa replied. Read more: In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal After House passage, the Senate is likely to start over on the health care bill Trump claims victory on repealing Obamacare, but he still has a long way to go What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? Another potentially vulnerable Republican who switched from no to yes is Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, who termed the earlier version of the bill "unacceptable." Frelinghuysen said in a statement after Tuesday’s vote that “doing nothing is not an option.”“ Today, I want to reassure New Jersey families that this legislation protects those with pre-existing conditions and restores essential health benefits,” he said. Opponents, including Republicans who voted against the bill, pointed out that the legislation allows states to opt out of the requirement that insurance policies cover minimum "essential" benefits. Insurance companies also would be allowed to charge people with pre-existing conditions more under the revised bill. But Republicans added $8 billion to the bill to help people with pre-existing conditions afford higher premiums. Here are the Republicans who opposed the original  American Health Care Act, but voted for the revised version on Thursday: Rep. Justin Amash of  Michigan Rep.  Mark Amodei of Nevada Rep. Rod Blum of Iowa Rep. Dave Brat of Virginia Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama Rep. Ted Budd of North Carolina Rep. Rick Crawford of Arkansas Rep. Warren Davidson of Ohio Rep. Scott Des Jarlais of Tennessee Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey Rep. Tom Garrett of Virginia Rep. Louie Gohmert of Texas Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona Rep. Andy Harris of Maryland Rep. Jody Hice of Georgia Rep. Darrell Issa of California Rep. Jim Jordan of  Ohio Rep. Raúl  Labrador of  Idaho Rep. Mark Meadows of North Carolina Rep. Scott Perry of Pennsylvania Rep. Bill Posey of Florida Rep. Mark Sanford of South Carolina Rep. Glenn Thompson of Pennsylvania Rep. Rob Wittman of Virginia Rep. David Young, of Iowa These are 20 Republicans who voted against the American Health Care Act: Andy Biggs of Arizona
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310098269/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-heads-to-New-Jersey-golf-club-for-working-weekend/
 Trump heads to New Jersey golf club for working weekend  Trump heads to New Jersey golf club for working weekend With Mar-a- Lago about to close for the summer season, Trump appears to ready to shift operations up north to Trump National Golf Course in Bedminster, N. J. Trump heads to New Jersey golf club for working weekend  With Mar-a- Lago about to close for the summer season, Trump appears to ready to shift operations up north to Trump National Golf Course in Bedminster, N. J.  Trump heads to New Jersey golf club for working weekend David Jackson  President Trump tweeted that he would not be staying in NYC over the weekend to avoid a disruption and save the country money. Veuer's Jose Sepulveda (@josesepulvedatv) has more.  – President Trump is working this weekend from his golf club in New Jersey – and is claiming to save money in the process." Rather than causing a big disruption in N. Y. C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N. J. this weekend," Trump tweeted Friday. " Also saves country money!" Rather than causing a big disruption in N. Y. C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N. J. this weekend. Also saves country money!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump ) May 5, 2017 Trump has been criticized for frequently spending weekends away from the White House at his Mar-a- Lago club in Palm Beach, Fla., which drives up taxpayer costs for Secret Service to protect the president. With Mar-a- Lago about to close for the summer season, Trump appears to ready to shift operations up north to  Trump National Golf Course in Bedminster, N. J. While protesters would be expected to congregate if the president worked out of Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan – and the crowded city makes presidential motorcades and other security measures more complex – protecting the frequently traveling president is expensive regardless of the destination. The government already provides security for first lady Melania Trump when she is in New York City, and local officials have protested the costs associated with that. The conservative organization Judicial Watch reported this week that, according to Air Force documents obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request, Trump 's flights to Mar-a- Lago for two weekends in February and March cost $1,281,420.00.“ We’re preparing to go to court to get a full accounting of President Trump ’s controversial trips," said Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton. “ Judicial Watch tracked some of the costs of President Obama’s unnecessary travel and we’re not closing up shop with a new administration.” Democrats have asked the Government Accountability Office to assess costs of Trump trips to Mar-a- Lago, and a report is expected soon. Meanwhile, Trump won't escape all the planned activism even in New Jersey. Protesters also plan to greet Trump there, including participants in a "people's motorcade" scheduled to roll by the golf club's entrance in New Jersey.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/309488646/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-praises-Australias-universal-health-care-in-meeting-with-Prime-Minister-Malcolm-Turnbull/
 Trump praises Australia health care in meeting with PM Malcolm Turnbull  Trump praises Australia's universal health care in meeting with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull President Trump had contentious phone call with Turnbull in January Trump praises Australia's universal health care in meeting with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull  Trump praises Australia's universal health care in meeting with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull David Jackson  President Donald Trump met with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull Thursday night in New York. ( May 4)  APPresident Trump meets with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull aboard the USS Intrepid, a decommissioned aircraft carrier docked in the Hudson River in New York.( Photo: Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP Images)  –  Four months after a contentious phone call, President Trump sought Thursday to smooth relations with the leader of Australia by celebrating a major U. S.- Australian naval milestone in World War II." We've been allies for 99 years," Trump told reporters after meeting with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. " Can you imagine that? 99 years. And never a bad time." Trump and Turnbull met in New York City for about 30 minutes ahead of a gala honoring the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea. In the early days of World War II, the U. S. and Australia faced off with Japan's navy in a historic aircraft carrier battle in the Pacific Ocean." That was some battle," Trump said. " That was a very important battle for both of us." Earlier in the day, Trump delayed his trip to New York and his meeting with Turnbull to await the results of a vote in the U. S. House to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Hours later, Trump told Turnbull that Australia has "“better health care” than the United States." It's going to be fantastic health care," Trump said, referring to Thursday's passed health care bill. " I shouldn't say this to our great gentleman and my friend from Australia because you have better health care than we do." The Trump - Turnbull sit-down comes just a few months after their reported acrimonious conversation of Jan. 28, a phone call that was subsequently parodied on Saturday Night Live. Little more than a week after becoming president, Trump  protested a refugee agreement Turnbull made with President Obama's administration. Under the deal — which the Trump administration has since said it would honor — the United States committed to resettling some 1,250 mostly Muslim refugees who have been housed in immigration camps on the Pacific island nations of Nauru and Papua New Guinea.   President Donald Trump says few people share ties in history, affection and culture like the Americans and the Australians. Trump praised the 'iron bonds' between the United States and Australia. ( May 4)  AP Trump , who during the campaign pledged new restrictions on refugees entering the United States, reportedly told Turnbull that he was "going to get killed" politically over the Australian deal. It was a calmer scene Thursday as Trump and Turnbull met at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, site of the Coral Sea gala. Trump disputed the idea that he had a testy phone call with Trumbull, telling reporters: " We get along great.  We have a fantastic relationship, I love Australia, I always have." Turnbull said Australia and the United States have always been close: " We are always more assured of winning when we are fighting together." In addition to refugees, the leaders were expected to discuss the North Korean nuclear and global security generally.  Australia is a key member of the Five Eyes intelligence alliance, along with the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom." I think that you can expect a strengthening out of an already strong ally, and furthered continued great relationship that we have with them," said White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders. In commemorating the Battle of the Coral Sea, the United States and Australia are saluting the emergence of a new kind of naval warfare that took place less than six months after Pearl Harbor." At the Battle of the Coral Sea, a complex action stretching across hundreds of sea miles and five days, from May 3 to 8, 1942, the two sides made naval history, as all the fighting was conducted by carrier-based aircraft," historian David M. Kennedy wrote in Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945." Separated by 175 miles of ocean, the warships neither directly fired upon nor even actually sighted one another," Kennedy said. Both sides publicly claimed success in the battle that preceded the more decisive U. S. victory at Midway one month later. The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/312822930/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~White-House-doubts-states-will-choose-to-charge-sicker-people-more/
White House doubts states will choose to charge sicker people more  White House doubts states will choose to charge sicker people more White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Sunday he doubts states will take the option of letting insurance companies charge sicker people more. White House doubts states will choose to charge sicker people more  White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Sunday he doubts states will take the option of letting insurance companies charge sicker people more.  White House doubts states will choose to charge sicker people more Maureen Groppe  Published 1:59 p.m. ET May 7, 2017 | Updated 6 hours ago White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, center, accompanied with congressmen, walks towards the House Chamber on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, May 4, 2017. The Republican health care bill, a top-flight priority the party nearly left for dead six weeks ago, headed toward a House showdown vote.( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP)  – White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Sunday he doubts states will take the option of letting insurance companies charge sicker people more if the GOP health care bill the House narrowly passed Thursday becomes law.“ It doesn’t affect anyone with continuous coverage, even if a governor — which I’m not sure that’s ever going to happen — takes the waiver option,” Priebus said on “ Fox News Sunday.” The bill, which now moves to the Senate, would let states seek waivers from the federal government to allow insurers to base premiums on a person’s health status —  a practice that was prohibited by the Affordable Care Act. The higher price could be charged to people who buy coverage on the health exchanges set up by the ACA, instead of getting it through an employer or a government program like Medicare and Medicaid. It would apply for one year for people who were purchasing insurance after a lapse in coverage. And it would lower premiums for healthier people. That provision was added to the bill to gain the support for hardline conservatives. To satisfy moderates, $8 billion was added to help subsidize the cost of the plans for people with pre-existing conditions through high-risk pools or some other means. Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a GOP critic of the bill, called that amount of funding “ridiculous.”“ States are not going to opt for that,” Kasich said on CNN’ S “ State of the Union.” “ There would be no reason to move to a high-risk pool, because a high-risk pool is not funded. So, I would just stay in the traditional program on the exchange.” But Gov. Scott Walker, of Priebus’ home state of Wisconsin, told reporters Friday he would consider seeking a waiver, depending on what’s in the final version of the legislation. Walker, chairman of the Republican Governors Association, said Wisconsin had a successful high-risk pool for people with serious health problems before major provisions of the ACA went into effect in 2014. Premiums in 2013 were as high as $1,500 per month for a 60-plus-year-old man with a $1,000 deductible, according to the Associated Press. Read More: Trump wasn't actually endorsing Australia's universal health care, White House says Fact check: The pre-existing conditions debate What does the Republican Obamacare repeal bill actually do? Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, whose state was a model for the high-risk pool funding included in the House bill, said it worked in Maine because there was sufficient funding.“ That could work and it could be part of the solution,” she said on ABC’s “ This Week with George Stephanopoulos. “ But the devil is really in the details.” Collins is among the senators critical of the House bill, saying it’s unlikely it would give people better coverage than they have now as President Trump has promised.“ The Senate is starting from scratch,” Collins said. “ My goal is to actually expand coverage for those 28 million Americans who still lack coverage despite the ACA.” ( Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images) House Speaker Paul Ryan told Stephanopoulos the Senate will make the bill better.“ We’ve already acknowledged we think we need to do even more support for people who are older and also more support for people with preexisting conditions,” Ryan said. But Republicans are still trying to cut overall spending to pay for repealing the taxes on the wealthy, sectors of the health care industry and others that were included in the ACA to pay for expanded coverage.“ We’re just throwing the baby out with the bathwater in order to give a tax cut,” Sen. Joe Manchin, D- W. Va., said on CBS’s “ Face the Nation.” The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projected 24 million fewer people would have coverage under an earlier version of the House bill than they would under the ACA.“ The fundamental issue here are the resources,” said Kasich, who is concerned about the Ohioans who gained coverage through the law’s expansion of Medicaid eligibility. “ It’s about half the resources in this bill that were in Obamacare.” 
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/312886298/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~White-House-defends-lack-of-women-at-health-care-event/
White House defends lack of women at health care event   White House defends lack of women at health care event Trump administration officials defended Sunday the president’s victory lap over a health care bill far from completion, and the fact that the Rose Garden news conference featured mostly men. White House defends lack of women at health care event  Trump administration officials defended Sunday the president’s victory lap over a health care bill far from completion, and the fact that the Rose Garden news conference featured mostly men.  White House defends lack of women at health care event  U. S. President Donald Trump speaks while flanked by House Republicans after they passed legislation aimed at repealing and replacing Obama Care, during an event in the Rose Garden at the White House, on May 4, 2017 in Washington, DC. The House bill would still need to pass the Senate before being signed into law. ( Photo: Mark Wilson, Getty Images) WASHINGTON– Trump administration officials defended Sunday the president’s victory lap over a health care bill far from completion, and the fact that the Rose Garden news conference featured mostly men.“ The president achieved something that no one thought he would,” White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said on “ Fox News Sunday.” “ I think we were right to give the Congress an attaboy in the Rose Garden. But we also know that this is just the beginning, it’s the first step.” Flanked by members of Congress and administration officials Thursday, President Trump celebrated the narrow House passage of a bill to rewrite major portions of the Affordable Care Act.“ Women's health experts in action,” Planned Parenthood’s Cecile Richards tweeted about the fact that most attending were men. Women's health experts in action.  Cecile Richards (@ Cecile Richards) May 4, 2017 The bill would cut federal funding to Planned Parenthood and allow states to scale back services insures have to cover, such as birth control and maternity care. NBC’s Andrew Mitchell asked Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price why the group was “mostly all men and white men at that” when “women’s health issues arguably are going to be disproportionately affected.” Price pointed out that Rep. Diana Black, who chairs the House Budget Committee, was there, as was Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.“ Out of a group of dozens and dozens of people, you can cite two or three women?” Mitchell responded.“ These are prominent individuals who are leading…in this area of health care,” Price said. “ The goal, as I mentioned, is to make certain that every single American, men, women, rich, poor, old, young, have the kind of coverage that they want for themselves and for their families, not that government forces them to buy.” ABC’s George Stephanopoulos asked Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, why neither she nor any other female senator is included in the Senate’s 13-member group working on the Senate’s version of the bill.‘ Well, the leaders obviously chose the people they want,” said Collins, whose objections to the House version include the cuts to Planned Parenthood. Collins added she’s continuing to push an alternative approach she’s working on with Sen. Bill Cassidy. R- La., and others.  Fact check: The pre-existing conditions debate Trump 's Army secretary nominee withdraws over gay comments Amid opioid epidemic, White House may cut drug control office budget Trump praises Australia's universal health care in meeting with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/312781938/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Condoleezza-Rice-Dont-be-reassured-by-Marine-Le-Pens-defeat-in-France/
Condoleezza Rice: Marine Le Pen and other populists are 'changing the character of politics.'  Condoleezza Rice: Don't be reassured by Marine Le Pen's defeat in France Condoleezza Rice warns against feeling reassured by the defeat of Marine Le Pen in the French election. The National Front candidate and other populists are 'changing the character of the politics.' Condoleezza Rice: Don't be reassured by Marine Le Pen's defeat in France  Condoleezza Rice warns against feeling reassured by the defeat of Marine Le Pen in the French election. The National Front candidate and other populists are 'changing the character of the politics.'  Condoleezza Rice: Don't be reassured by Marine Le Pen's defeat in France Susan Page  Former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warns against feeling reassured by the expected defeat of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in the French presidential election Sunday.  — Former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warns against feeling reassured by the defeat of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in the French presidential election Sunday." I really do believe that these populists are changing the character of the politics just by being there, so even mainstream candidates are having to respond to their agenda," Rice told Capital Download. " You see fewer people talking about free trade. You see countries talking about industrial policy and protectionism. It's hard to defend immigrants almost any place in the world today. ..." The rise of nativism is having an impact on the politics, even if the candidates aren't winning." More than four years ago, Rice began writing a book about the challenges to democracy, especially in nations that only recently have moved toward free elections . Now Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom, is being published Tuesday by Twelve in the wake of the unexpected passage of Brexit in Great Britain and the surprise election of Donald Trump in the United States. In a final chapter, Rice describes "the rise of populism, nativism, and a tinge of isolationism" around the world. " It is no surprise that this earthquake is shaking young democracies like Poland," she wrote. " But it is stunning that it has jolted the most mature of them." The 486-page book is at its core a push-back to the America First ideology advocated by candidate Trump , the sense that the United States should be less engaged in international affairs and less concerned about advocating human rights outside its borders. Rice argues that the United States is essential in protecting and expanding democracies, an approach that she says ultimately safeguards American interests. In an interview Saturday with USA TODAY 's video newsmaker series, Rice was tempered in her comments about Trump  — praising his national-security team as "outstanding," saying Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was "fantastic," and suggesting the president and his administration was successfully learning on the job. She declined to criticize the administration's proposal to cut the State Department budget by nearly 30% and to eliminate thousands of agency jobs. Capital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakers Consider Trump 's praise of authoritarian strongmen abroad, among them Russian President Vladimir Putin, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el- Sisi, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and even North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. " A pretty smart cookie," Trump said in an interview on CBS' Face the Nation last week. Does that send a dangerous message?" The president's words matter," Rice said, though she distinguished between allies like el- Sisi — " I have no problem with that" — and adversaries like the erratic Kim." The president of the United States is the most important voice for our foreign policy. He's the most important voice for our values and for our interests, and the use of that voice is important, and I think we're starting to see recognition of that." While every new president faces a learning curve, she acknowledged that it may be particularly steep in this administration. " President Trump has never been in government," she noted. " As a matter of fact, a lot of the people around him have never been in government as well. Yes, I think that they are getting accustomed to what the presidency can do." Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom, by Condoleezza Rice ( Photo: Twelve, publisher) Rice, now 62 and a professor at Stanford, was a National Security Council aide with a specialty in Russia for the elder President Bush. ( She still occasionally watches Russian newscasts online.) During the younger President Bush's administration, she became the first woman to serve as White House national security adviser. She was secretary of State during George W. Bush's second term. During last year's presidential campaign, she called for Trump to withdraw as a candidate after the release of the  Access Hollywood tape that included audio of him bragging about sexually assaulting women. " Enough!" she wrote on Facebook in October. " Donald Trump should not be President." Five months later, in March, she sat down with Trump in the White House for what she calls "a very good meeting."" For me, he is the president of the United States," she said. " He won it fair and square. We have an electoral process in our democracy and I completely respect that process and its outcome. I also respect the fact that he saw something and felt something in the population that a lot of people didn't see. And people took the democratic road to find a candidate who they thought would represent their interests and deal with their aspirations, deal with their fears, and so I respect that." He's the president, and I'll do what I can to help him." That is, to help him. Not to join his administration. " I'm going to stay in California," she demurred. " I'm a happy professor." A look at former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/312751054/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trumps-immigration-travel-ban-faces-familiar-foe-in-appeals-courts-Trump/
 Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in court: Trump   Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump Hearings on both coasts over the next two weeks will renew the immigration battle begun in January, when the president signed an executive order temporarily barring travelers from seven majority- Muslim nations. Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump   Hearings on both coasts over the next two weeks will renew the immigration battle begun in January, when the president signed an executive order temporarily barring travelers from seven majority- Muslim nations.  Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump Richard Wolf  Protesters demonstrated against President Trump 's revised travel ban in New York City in March.( Photo: Drew Angerer, Getty Images)  -- President Trump 's second travel ban targeting immigrants from six predominantly Muslim countries begins a new round of federal court hearings Monday battling a familiar Achilles' heel: Candidate Trump . From Richmond, Va., to Seattle, Wash., federal appeals courts with a majority of judges nominated by Democratic presidents will hear government lawyers defend the revised ban against immigrants and refugees as Trump 's national security prerogative. Civil liberties and immigrants' rights groups will contend that the new executive order continues to discriminate against Muslims based on their religion, a violation of the First Amendment's establishment clause -- and they will use Trump 's words from the campaign trail as Exhibit A. It was still 2015 when Trump -- before any votes had been cast in primaries and caucuses -- called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on." Those and subsequent comments by Trump and his associates have been used by challengers to prove that regardless of other reasons, the travel ban represents an unconstitutional violation of religious rights. But unlike the first round of court battles in February, which sent the White House back to the drawing board to draft a new executive order, administration officials and their allies have reason to believe they are on firmer legal ground now. Travel ban 2.0 exempts thousands of foreign nationals who hold valid visas or green cards. It eliminates Iraq from the original list of affected countries, leaving Iran, Libya, Somalis, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It lasts for 90 days, not indefinitely, as had been the case for Syria. It contains no preference for religious minorities, which had favored Christians. And it includes a waiver process for those claiming undue hardship." On its face, it doesn't target Muslims," says Christopher Hajec, litigation director for the conservative Immigration Reform Law Institute. " The political branches of our government have the sovereign right to protect the country." TRUMP V. TRUMP Syrian refugee Baraa Haj Khalaf holds an American flag alongside her husband and father at Chicago's O' Hare International Airport in early February after gaining entry to the U. S. She and her family had been blocked after President Trump signed his original executive order in January. ( Photo: JOSHUA LOTT, AFP/ Getty Images) Challengers say targeting Muslims is exactly what the travel ban does, and they cite Trump 's words as proof." President Trump publicly committed himself to an indefensible goal: banning Muslims from coming to the United States," the American Civil Liberties Union and National Immigration Law Center argue in court papers. " The president refused to repudiate that goal on multiple occasions, including after he was elected, and he continues to advertise it to this day on his own website." Karen Tumlin, NILC's legal director, says that violates the Constitution's ban on government establishment of religion and gives Muslim Americans "a constant feeling that the highest office in the land is disparaging their religious choice." Read more: Court challenges to Trump policies may multiply DHS: No progress on 'extreme vetting' behind purpose of temporary travel ban What's next for Trump 's revised travel ban? The government insists the impetus for both versions of the travel ban is the same: national security. Every president for the past three decades has temporarily suspended entry of some aliens, it says. Near the end of the Obama administration, it notes, immigrants from the same six nations were blocked temporarily under the visa waiver program because of concerns about terrorism. That argument didn't work the first time around in February. A federal district court judge in Washington State and a three-judge panel of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit stopped the ban in its tracks -- after a chaotic first few days at international airports and a round of visa cancellations by the State Department. Version 2.0 didn't fare much better in March. This time, federal judges in Hawaii and Maryland got in the way, just as the ban was about to go into effect. In Hawaii, Judge Derrick Watson cited "significant and unrebutted evidence of religious animus" toward Muslims. In Maryland, Judge Theodore Chuang said the "history of public statements" indicated the purpose was "the realization of the long-envisioned Muslim ban.” Thomas Lee, an international law professor at Fordham University School of Law, says the second executive order stands a better chance of being upheld but remains burdened by the earlier anti- Muslim rhetoric." They can’t completely disavow the past statements," Lee says. " You can't put that genie back in the bottle." LAST STOP: SUPREME COURT?  Pro-immigration protesters demonstrate at the Supreme Court last year to show support for President Barack Obama's anti-deportation efforts. The high court may get the last word on President Trump 's travel ban. ( Photo: Mark Wilson, Getty Images) The government and conservative interest groups backing it say statements Trump made when he was not president are largely irrelevant. " Even in the domestic setting, courts judge the legitimacy of a law by what it says and does, and occasionally by the official context that surrounds it — not by what supposedly lies in the hearts of its drafters," the government's brief says. That may not be enough to convince the judges hearing the cases on Monday in Richmond and the following week in Seattle. Both courts are among the most liberal in the country. The Richmond hearing will be held in front of the entire 15-member U. S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit, which is extremely unusual. Appeals court cases usually go before three-judge panels; the full court only rarely agrees to hear cases even after a panel rules.“ It’s been more than half a century since the court has done it,” Tumlin says. “ It’s a bit of a legal unicorn. You don’t get this very often.” If both the 4th and 9th Circuit appeals courts rule against Trump , he will get one final chance if the Supreme Court agrees to weigh in. The high court, now at full strength with the addition of Trump 's nominee, conservative Justice Neil Gorsuch, has divided closely in the past on issues involving immigration. Last June, it deadlocked 4-4 over President Barack Obama's effort to protect more than 4 million undocumented immigrants from deportation and allow them to seek work permits. The tie vote left a lower court ruling against the program intact. But the justices often defer to the president and executive branch on issues involving national security.“ If I were a betting man," Lee says, " I would bet that the government wins.”
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/312689642/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~President-Trump-seizes-on-election-rules-to-push-his-agenda-in-new-ways/
President Trump seizes on election rules to raise money, push agenda in new ways  President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Trump filed for re-election on Day One, upending years of presidential tradition. President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways  President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Fredreka Schouten  Donald Trump promised to shake up Washington and in many ways, he's lived up to his promise. From his Day One battle over inaugural crowd size to claims of wiretapping by his predecessor, AP looks at some key moments of Trump 's first 100 days. ( April 27)  APIn this March 20 photo, President Trump arrives to speak at a rally at the Kentucky Exposition Center in Louisville.( Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP)  — President Trump has headlined four big rallies in the first months of his presidency to tout his agenda and savage his foes. A new $1.5 million television ad campaign promotes his accomplishments and attacks the media. The flurry of activity to build support for Trump ’s policies isn’t organized by the White House but springs from his re-election campaign, which filed paperwork allowing him to begin raising and spending money on Jan. 20 — the same day he took the oath of office. By contrast, both President Obama and President George W. Bush had been in office for more than two years before they filed for re-election. Traditionally, presidents use federal money to push their policies and refrain from overtly political activity until later in their terms. But Trump ’s unorthodox move to immediately start fundraising allows him to capitalize on federal election laws to push his agenda in new ways. He can rally his supporters, openly denounce his political enemies and pressure recalcitrant lawmakers in Congress — all without running afoul of rules that bar using taxpayer money for politics. Trump 's perpetual campaign operation is another sign of the ways the billionaire president is upending political norms." I don't think it should surprise anyone that he's continuing to break the mold and come up with new and innovative ways to exercise the power of the presidency and run for re-election," said Michael Glassner, a longtime campaign aide whom Trump tapped to serve as executive director of the re-election effort. " It's a continuation of his reinvention of the American political system." Campaign finance experts say operating as a candidate gives Trump  the legal freedom to act in ways that he can't as president. At a taxpayer-funded rally, for instance, it might be harder for Trump  to toss out protesters.  At campaign events, Trump can and does. At a recent Harrisburg, Pa., rally to mark his 100th day in office, the president yelled “get him out of here” as police removed a protester, who had waved a Russian flag and called Trump a “traitor.” Trump ’s strategy helps him “make sure the audience is friendly, and it frees him up to say what he wants,” said Larry Noble, a former Federal Election Commission official who works for the Campaign Legal Center watchdog group. But by legally declaring his candidacy on his first day in office, “he made it very partisan immediately,” Noble added. “ We didn’t have any period when we could look at the president as the president of the whole country.” Glassner said the campaign doesn't restrict attendance at Trump  events. Participants need tickets to attend, however.  That ticketing allows the campaign aides to grow  Trump 's already massive database of supporters and their addresses — another way to solicit campaign donations and to mobilize Trump -friendly voters for policy battles he' s waging in Washington. Glassner estimates that roughly 55,000 people have attended Trump 's rallies so far this year. Lew Oliver, chairman of the Orange County Republican Party in central Florida, said Trump seems to draw energy from the rallies. They also have the added benefit of reminding the federal lawmakers up for re-election in 2018 of the support he enjoys among Republican voters outside Washington. Two of Trump ’s recent rallies — in Melbourne, Fla., and Harrisburg — underscore his victories in those crucial swing states.“ Keeping constituents in campaign mode is … a way of keeping the base energized to put pressure on Republicans in Congress,” Oliver said." I think everything he does projects the power and authority of the presidency, and this is part of that," Glassner said of the rallies." It is a way to exhibit to Democrats and Republicans that he is a force to be reckoned with and that the enthusiasm for him outside the Beltway has not diminished." Because television networks carry the events live "it's really an uncensored, unfiltered way for him to communicate with Americans," Glassner added. The campaign also communicates with more than 22 million supporters via Facebook. One post celebrated Friday's  House passage of a health-care bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. Another accuses television networks of censoring Trump . Several networks, including CNN, declined to run the campaign's 100-day ad because it attacks the media as "fake news." Trump in Nashville: ' Time for us to embrace our glorious national destiny' Read more: In major victory for Republicans, House passes Obamacare repeal Trump campaign blasts CNN for not airing 100 days ad The early activity already appears to be paying off financially for Trump ’s campaign and the Republican Party. Donald J. Trump for President Inc.raised $7.1 million in the first three months of the year, far surpassing the $1.15 million that Obama's campaign committee brought in during the first quarter of his presidency. Altogether, the Republican National Committee, Trump and their joint fundraising committees topped $53 million during the first quarter of 2017, much of it fueled by the same kind of small-dollar donors who flocked to Trump 's 2016 campaign. If Team Trump maintains that pace, fundraising could surpass $400 million by the end of 2018, shooting past the $343 million the RNC took in during the 2016 presidential election cycle. Glassner would not discuss the campaign's fundraising goals, but said it's not too soon to prepare for the "tremendous monetary costs" ahead. Trump ’s go-early approach could fundamentally alter how campaigns are financed for years to come, said Michael Toner, a Republican election lawyer and former Federal Election Commission chairman. Trump 's move to raise money from Day One on the job could emerge as “the new blueprint for presidents,” Toner said. “ And you have to wonder: Does this accelerate the decision-making for the people who are thinking about challenging him?” The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/310836578/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-issues-broad-Bushstyle-signing-statement-on-spending-bill/
President Trump 's signing statement on spending bill resurrects Bush-era strategy Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Trump issues a " Bush-style signing statement" on a $1.1 trillion spending bill, a signal he intends to use the tool to vigorously defend what he sees as the president's constitutional authority. Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Trump issues a " Bush-style signing statement" on a $1.1 trillion spending bill, a signal he intends to use the tool to vigorously defend what he sees as the president's constitutional authority. Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Gregory Korte Published 6:59 p.m. ET May 5, 2017 | Updated 4 hours ago President Trump boards Air Force One at Andrews Air Force base Thursday for a weekend in New York and New Jersey.( Photo: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI, AFP/ Getty Images)  — President Trump signed a $1.1 trillion spending bill on Friday, and used the opportunity to attach a signing statement that asserted presidential prerogatives on issues of war powers, marijuana and government spending. The signing statement was Trump 's first as president, and could signal that he intends to use the tool to vigorously defend what he sees as the president's constitutional authority. Through the statement, Trump reserved the right to disregard 89 different provisions in the spending bill." This is a George W. Bush-style signing statement," said Christopher Kelley, a Miami University political scientist whose work on Bush's signing statements brought attention to a formerly obscure presidential tool. " It's a line-by line series of objections that lead to dozens and dozens of challenges that you just did not see in the Obama administration." A signing statement is a written pronouncement issued by a president as he signs a bill into law. They can be used to explain the president's positions, prod Congress to pass more legislation, or to put the president on record raising constitutional issues with a bill. But during the Bush administration, critics said the practice allowed the president to rewrite laws he disagreed with after he had signed them — rather than vetoing bills and sending them back to Congress. Among the provisions that Trump said he was reserving the right to disregard:► Marijuana: The spending law forbids the Justice Department from spending any money to prevent 44 states from implementing their own laws on medical marijuana. Yet Trump said that law conflicts with his constitutional responsibility to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed," leaving open the possibility that his administration could challenge state and local medical marijuana laws.► Weapons systems: Several provisions forbid the administration from canceling weapons programs, such as the RQ-4 B Global Hawk or A-10 aircraft. Another forbids the president from funding nuclear-armed interceptors — a form of missile defense that uses nuclear weapons to shoot down other nuclear weapons. Trump said those provisions "unconstitutionally limit my ability to modify the command and control of military personnel and materiel."► White House "czars:" Congress had blocked the president from hiring certain Obama-era White House "czars," including key policy advisers on health care, climate change, the auto industry and urban affairs. Trump said he has "well-established authority to supervise and oversee the executive branch and to obtain advice in furtherance of this supervisory authority."► Affirmative action: Congress has established programs giving preferences based on race and sex in hiring, grants and government contracts. Trump said he would interpret those provisions "consistent with the requirement to afford equal protection of the laws" under the Constitution.► Guantanamo Bay: Trump even raised issues with provisions trying to restrict the president's ability to release suspected terrorists from the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba — although his objection is different from that of President Barack Obama. Trump said the law "does not include an exception for when a court might order the release of a detainee to certain countries," and therefore said he was reserving the right to disregard it. Jennifer Hing, a spokeswoman for the House Appropriations Committee, said the committee was still reviewing the president's signing statement to determine how to respond. The spending bill keeps the government open through Sept. 30, avoiding a government shutdown through a series of compromises on contentious issues like a border wall, immigration enforcement and funding for Planned Parenthood.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313514579/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Sally-Yates-warned-White-House-that-Michael-Flynn-was-vulnerable-to-Russian-blackmail/
Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail  Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail Days before she was fired as acting attorney general, Yates warned that Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail and could even face criminal charges. Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail  Days before she was fired as acting attorney general, Yates warned that Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail and could even face criminal charges.  Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail Kevin Johnson  Former Attorney General Sally Yates testified that she warned President Trump 's White House that Michael Flynn was susceptible to blackmail by Russia.  USA TODAY Sally Yates speaks during a press conference at the Department of Justice on June 28, 2016 .( Photo: SAUL LOEB, Saul Loeb, AFP/ Getty Images)  — Days before she was fired as acting attorney general, Sally Yates was so troubled that then- National Adviser Michael Flynn misled Vice President Mike Pence about his communications with the Russian ambassador that she warned the White House counsel he was vulnerable to blackmail and could even face criminal charges. For the first time publicly,  Yates recounted before a Senate Judiciary panel on Monday the details of a Jan. 26 meeting – and a follow up session the next day – in which she alerted  Don Mc Gahn, the White House counsel, that Flynn had lied to administration officials about his conversations with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak before Trump 's inauguration." You don’t want a situation where a national security adviser could get blackmailed by the Russians,’’ Yates told the panel. Flynn's contacts with the ambassador, according to officials who have previously described the communications, involved discussions with the ambassador about sanctions the Obama administration imposed on Russia. Those conversations were secretly monitored by federal authorities, as are most communications involving foreign diplomats. Pence, for his part, had said he had been assured by Flynn that the subject of sanctions was not raised in the Kislyak conversations. Citing the classified nature of how the communications were obtained, Yates declined to elaborate on the intercepts or how she got her information. But she said the anxiety about  Flynn's actions was so great within the Justice Department that members of its national security division were consulted, as were other intelligence officials across the government." Compromise was the No. 1 concern,'' Yates said, referring to the possibility that Russian officials, aware that Flynn had misled the White House, could blackmail him by threatening to expose his lies and tank his career." It was a whole lot more than one White House official lying to another,'' Yates said. " It involved the vice president of the United States." In their meeting, Yates said Mc Gahn asked her at one point whether Flynn should be immediately dismissed. Yates said she offered no opinion on Flynn's continuing service, but conveyed the "urgent'' nature of her concerns. Two days before her first meeting with Mc Gahn, Yates said FBI agents interviewed Flynn about his conversations with Kislyak. After informing Mc Gahn that Flynn had been questioned by law enforcement, Yates said Mc Gahn asked: " How did he do?''​ Yates declined to describe Flynn's interview with Mc Gahn because it was then part of an active counterintelligence investigation. Eighteen days later, ​after Yates' warnings were made public, Flynn was forced to resign. His departure ended the shortest tenure of any president's national security adviser – and stoked further suspicion about the ties between Trump associates and Russian officials. By then, Yates was already gone. Just four days after Yates' first meeting with the White House counsel, President Trump fired the career federal prosecutor for her actions on a separate matter. A holdover from the Obama administration, Yates had instructed Justice lawyers not to defend Trump 's travel ban. Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/314148858/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~OnPolitics-Today-Sally-Yates-told-us-so/
Sally Yates, Donald Trump 's travel ban and Barack Obama: On Politics Today  On Politics Today: Sally Yates told us so Happy Monday, On Politics readers! We hope you're ready for another week of politics goodness. After tiring themselves out with that healthcare vote last week, the House is out on vacay/recess/district working period. On Politics Today: Sally Yates told us so  Happy Monday, On Politics readers! We hope you're ready for another week of politics goodness. After tiring themselves out with that healthcare vote last week, the House is out on vacay/recess/district working period. On Politics Today: Sally Yates told us so Jessica Estepa  Former U. S. Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates testifies before the Senate Judicary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism in the Hart Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill May 8, 2017 in Washington, DC. ( Photo: Eric Thayer, Getty Images) Happy Monday, On Politics readers! We hope you're ready for another week of politics goodness. After tiring themselves out with that health care vote last week, the House is out for vacay/recess/a district working period. But the Senate is still in session and President Trump is around and the courts are at work, so there's still plenty to do.  On today's docket: Sally Yates talks blackmail, judges question the revised travel ban and Barack Obama is unsurprisingly not happy about what's going on with health care. It's On Politics Today. Subscribe here and let's get to it. Sally Yates: I told you so Back in January, Sally Yates made headlines for (a) refusing to carry out President Trump 's first try at a travel ban and (b) being fired for that decision. The former acting attorney general was at it again Monday, when she told a Senate committee that in the days before her dismissal, she warned the White House about then- National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. What happened exactly? According to Yates, she told the administration in two separate meetings that Flynn had lied about his conversations with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak before Trump 's inauguration.  " You don’t want a situation where a national security adviser could get blackmailed by the Russians," she said. Fair. Who else warned Trump that hiring Flynn may not be a great idea? Barack Obama. Travel ban week Speaking of the travel ban: The second iteration of the ban is up for judicial review this week. And if you're on the side of the administration, it's not going so well. Appeals court judges on Monday grilled government lawyers over the halted executive order, pointing to Trump 's previous vows to institute a " Muslim ban" (btw, his 2015 statement on a Muslim ban has not-so-mysteriously disappeared from his campaign website). " Is there anything other than willful blindness that would prevent us from getting behind those statements?" asked Judge Henry Floyd.   One thing to keep in mind: If the appeals courts rule that the nationwide blocks on the ban should stand, the issue goes to the Supreme Court, where the new appointment of conservative Justice Neil Gorsuch may tilt a ruling in Trump 's favor. Obama claps back Barack Obama is not too pleased about the GOP attempt to dismantle Obamacare. The former president accepted the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award on Sunday — and spent much of his speech targeting congressional Republicans and President Trump (though he never mentioned  Trump by name). He pointed out that congressmen who voted for the Affordable Care Act back in 2010 lost their seats but did the right thing. He then added, " I hope that current members of Congress recall that it actually doesn’t take a lot of courage to aid those who are already powerful, already comfortable, already influential. But it does require some courage to champion the vulnerable and the sick and the infirm — those who often have no access to the corridors of power." Sidenote: Jack Schlossberg is a name you're going to want to bookmark. Elsewhere in politics Jerry Springer compares ' Trump care' to 9/11 Bill Clinton and author James Patterson are writing a thriller together. ( Yes, really.) AND there's a book coming out about the alternative universe where Hillary Rodham never marries Bill. ( Yes, really really.)  Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump At college commencement speeches in 2017, it's a no- Trump zone on most campuses
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/314101908/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~At-college-commencement-speeches-in-its-a-noTrump-zone-on-most-campuses/
College commencement speeches in 2017: It's a no- Donald Trump zone  At college commencement speeches in 2017, it's a no- Trump zone on most campuses For college graduation speakers, a year to ignore the elephant in the stadium -- Trump At college commencement speeches in 2017,  At college commencement speeches in 2017,  Published 5:30 p.m. ET May 8, 2017 | Updated 9 hours ago Graduates turn their tassels during the conferring of degrees portion of the commencement ceremony at Radford University May 6, 2017.( Photo: Heather Rousseau, AP)  Caution: If you attend a campus commencement address this spring, you could be entering a no- Trump zone. Most college and university graduation speakers contacted by USA TODAY said they would not address the elephant in the stadium. And mention of the president and party politics has been conspicuously absent from the speeches that already have been given.“ If they invited a politician to speak, they’d get what they expected. Since they didn’t, I’ll take that as a direction’’ and avoid the subject, said former NASA astronaut Kathryn Thornton, who may speak about space exploration at Sweet Briar College in Virginia. Astronaut Kathryn Thornton in the Spacehab section of the space shuttle Columbia  Oct. 22, 1995, in this image from NASA television. ( Photo: AP)“ Anybody whose commencement speech could be put on the editorial page of a newspaper doesn't understand the job,’’ said Anthony Esolen, an English literature scholar who will speak at Hillsdale College in Michigan. His advice: “ Leave the shifting sand dunes of the day far behind.’’ As for Trump , he asked, “ Why on earth should I mention the president?  …. I have instead to decide whether I will talk about Milton or Dante or Dr. Johnson…’’ That seems like a sound approach to Cristina Negrut, a connoisseur of commencement speeches who founded the website graduationwisdom.com. Love Trump or hate him, “we already have enough people trying to label him, like Meryl Streep at the Golden Globes,’’ she said. “ Another label – ‘liar’ or something -- is not helpful.’’ The talk at graduation is of everything but Trump , including memories of a graduation past (writing coach Roy Peter Clark at Providence College); indigenous American languages (2016 Mac Arthur genius grant winner Daryl Baldwin at Miami University in Ohio); mountain climbing (mountaineer Conrad Anker at the University of Utah). Speakers cited tried and true rules for commencement speeches to explain why they will not talk about the man everyone else is talking about. It’s about the graduates, not the speaker’s politics The most common piece of advice a first-time graduation speaker receives may be “it’s not about you.’’   It’s good counsel, said CNN political analyst Fareed Zakaria, who has delivered commencement addresses at Harvard, Sarah Lawrence and the University of Oklahoma, and this year speaks at Bucknell.  “ My views on Donald Trump are well known and easily discoverable. There’s no need for me to impress them on students and their families.’’ Fareed Zakaria April 2, 2015 in New York City. ( Photo: Larry Busacca, Getty Images for Time Warner) But it’s not all about the graduates Even if the graduate would enjoy hearing the speaker trash the president, Grandpa or Grandma – who keeps Fox News on all day – might not. And it’s his day, too. Accentuate the positive“ You want to strike a celebratory note,’’ Esolen said, and an optimistic one. These days, that pretty much rules out politics. “ I’ll leave notions of ‘ American carnage,’ for another venue,’’ Thornton said – a dry allusion to the signature phrase in Trump ’s inaugural address Eliminate the ephemeral Esolen said politics is fine in a commencement speech – “if you are talking about Edmund Burke or Tocqueville or Aristotle.’’ The writer Anna Quindlen, who estimates she’s given three dozen commencement speeches over the years, plans to strike a similar note at Washington University in St. Louis: “ I prefer to try something that will stand the test of time.’’ Barnard President Debora L. Spar, actress Meryl Streep and Pulitzer Price-winning journalist and author Anna Quindlen attend the Barnard College Commencement May 17, 2010 in New York City. ( Photo: Slaven Vlasic, Getty Images) Jonathan La Pook, CBS News’ medical correspondent and an NYU professor of medicine, said he doesn’t plan to touch on the Affordable Care Act debate when he speaks at the Quinnipiac University Medical School: “ This is their first graduating class, so I have to be a little evergreen.’’ Make ‘em laugh“ Funny speeches are best,’’ said Negrut, the speech maven. She points approvingly to Modern Family sitcom creator Steve Levitan’s You Tube video previewing his speech this month at his alma mater, the University of Wisconsin- Madison. It features MF’s Phil Dunphy ( Ty Burrell) announcing Levitan as the speaker, but claiming never to have heard of him. Zakaria said that if he mentions Trump at all, he will probably do so humorously, because “there is so much about him that lends itself to humor.‘’ But that also is tough, he said: “ There is so much competition.’’ Clark, founder of the National Writers Workshop, recalls the uses of humor from his own graduation from Providence in the grim Vietnam War year of 1970, when spring classes ended early because of student anti-war protests. The speaker was the political humorist Art Buchwald. He didn’t attack President Nixon by name, but let the graduates – some of whom who’d be drafted – know he understood their concerns about Nixon and the war.  Clark never forgot how Buchwald ended: “ Years from now, when people ask you what you did at your graduation, you can say you laughed.’’ Sincerity and levity Some speakers will talk about Trump . Maz Jobrani, the Iranian- American stand-up comedian, is giving the speech at his alma mater, UCal- Berkeley. “ I have to talk about him, because I’m an immigrant,’’ he said. “ The best graduation talks are sincere, and I have a lot of sincere feelings about his impact. He needs to take responsibility for his words.’’ Iranian- American comedian Maz Jobrani with members of the Nomad Dancers during a reception marking the Persian new year April 6, 2016 in Washington, DC. ( Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images) Some audiences want a political message. On a campus like Berkeley, which has become a battleground over political speech, an anti- Trump message presumably would resonate. A place like Liberty University in Virginia, where Trump himself will deliver the commencement, is another story.“ How to handle the national zeitgeist at this particular moment is a struggle,’’ Quidlen said. “ I'm hoping to speak to the graduates about who we are as individuals and as a nation, and who we hope to be, in a way that is informed at some level by the tone in Washington.’’ During commencement season 2016 , when Trump was the presumptive GOP nominee, he was the target of several high-profile attacks. At Stanford, documentarian Ken Burns accused Trump (without mentioning his name) of nurturing “an incipient proto-fascism’’ as well as “jingoistic saber rattling’’ and “dictatorial tendencies.’’ He acknowledged that it was an unusual setting for such a polemic, but said, “ There comes a time when I -- and you -- can no longer remain neutral, silent.’’   He got a standing ovation. At Johns Hopkins, director Spike Lee worried Trump would start World War III. At MIT, actor Matt Damon asked why, if our world is one of many simulations run by a superior civilization, “we're in the one where Donald Trump becomes the Republican nominee? Can we, like, transfer to a different one?'’ This year, many campus speakers are politicians – Joe Biden at Cornell, Colby and Harvard, Hillary Clinton at Wellesley and Medgar Evers College in New York City, Bernie Sanders at Brooklyn College, Sen. Elizabeth Warren at UMass- Amherst and Wheelock College, Vice President Mike Pence at the Naval Academy and Notre Dame and Trump as the Coast Guard Academy. It’s not clear if their speeches will be partisan. One early return: House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, speaking May 1 at Fisk University in Nashville, did not mention Trump , saying only that " The election showed how much work needs to be done to rid our nation of negative attitudes…’’ Thornton, who teaches at the University of Virginia, said speakers should understand that the world will not long remember what they say: “ I’ve been going to graduations for over 20 years and I can’t remember a word, or who gave it. I’m speaking on Saturday; by Sunday they’ll have forgotten everything. So I figure the pressure is off.’’
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/314086319/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Indianas-alternative-Medicaid-program-shows-tradeoffs-of-charging-recipients-for-care/
Indiana's alternative Medicaid program shows tradeoffs of charging recipients for care  Indiana's alternative Medicaid program shows tradeoffs of charging recipients for care More than half the low-income people who qualified for Indiana’s alternative Medicaid program failed to make a required monthly payment for the top tier of benefits. Indiana's alternative Medicaid program shows tradeoffs of charging recipients for care  More than half the low-income people who qualified for Indiana’s alternative Medicaid program failed to make a required monthly payment for the top tier of benefits. Indiana's alternative Medicaid program shows tradeoffs of charging recipients for care Maureen Groppe  The federal agency that oversees health insurance programs for tens of millions of American consumers has a new leader. VP Pence has sworn in Seema Verma as administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. ( March 14)  APSeema Verma is sworn-in as Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services by US Vice President Mike Pence, beside Verma's daughter Maya, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building at the White House complex in Washington, DC, USA, 14 March 2017.( Photo: MICHAEL REYNOLDS, EPA)  LINKEDIN – More than half the low-income people who qualified for Indiana’s alternative Medicaid program failed to make a required monthly payment for the top tier of benefits – a key feature of the program Vice President Mike Pence insisted on as a condition to expanding the health care program when he was Indiana’s governor. That's according to a new evaluation of the Healthy Indiana Plan, a program designed by Indiana health care consultant Seema Verma, who – as the new administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services – can now grant other states permission to impose similar monthly fees. Opponents say the department of Health and Human Services should not allow other states to do this, because this study and other research has shown requiring poor people to pay is a barrier to care. House Republicans passed a bill to repeal and replace the Obama-era Affordable Care Act last week, but its future remains uncertain. If progress on a health care plan stagnates, the Trump administration will focus even more on trying to make changes through state waivers – and Verma, along with  HHS Secretary Tom Price, have already told states they want to be as permissive as possible. Yet critics of Indiana’s program said the new evaluation shows Indiana’s complicated program doesn’t work well and shouldn’t be used as a model for other states. “ It’s time to really step back and think about this as an experiment and whether it’s successful,” said Judy Solomon, vice president for health policy at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. For its part, the state says only a small share of those who missed a payment ended up losing their health care for the state’s required six-month lockout period. Most ended up in a lower tier of coverage with fewer benefits and some cost-sharing requirements. “ We’ve seen relatively few people actually be subject to the six-month lockout,” said Joe Moser, Indiana’s Medicaid director. Read more: Indiana Medicaid program could be blueprint for Trump Indiana's Medicaid alternative life-saving and frustrating Fact check: Medicaid’s doctor participation rates Verma and Price have encouraged states to seek permission to try new ways of running Medicaid, which is jointly financed by states and the federal government. Other states appear to be interested. Kentucky, Maine and Wisconsin are actively exploring requiring monthly payments for Medicaid recipients. Indiana’s program was seen as pushing the limits on what states could do when it was approved by the Obama administration on a three-year trial basis in 2015. Indiana has asked the Trump administration to extend the program through 2021. Recipients must pay between $1 to $100 a month – depending on their income – to enroll in a higher coverage tier, which comes with dental and vision benefits. The HIP Plus level is the only program available to those above the poverty line, while those below can still qualify for the HIP Basic level. Of the 590,315 Hoosiers determined eligible for Medicaid during the 22 months after Indiana expanded eligibility, 55 percent either never made the first payment or missed one while on the program. Nearly nine in ten ended up in the lower-tier plan as a result, according to an evaluation done for the state and submitted to the federal government. The next largest share – 14% – never enrolled. Another 4% were unenrolled because their income was too high to qualify for the lower tier.“ The evaluation makes clear that Healthy Indiana's complicated use of premium payments is not working,” said Joan Alker, executive director of Georgetown University’s Center for Children and Families. “ More than half of the enrollees have missed a payment at some point and as a result are bouncing around in and out of coverage sources or no coverage at all. These are very poor people for whom premiums are a hardship.” Of those who left the program after missing a payment, 61% who responded to a survey said they couldn’t afford to pay or were confused about the payment process. Another 22% either had other insurance or their income rose, making them ineligible. Of those who qualified for the program but never made an initial payment, 44% said they couldn’t afford the monthly payment or were confused about it. Another 26% either got insurance elsewhere or their income rose, making them ineligible. Fewer than half of those who left the program or never made an initial payment had insurance when surveyed by Lewin Group for the state. Of those who did, most were covered through an employer. Pence insisted on including monthly payments as a condition for expanding Medicaid through the Affordable Care Act. He argued the payments promote personal responsibility and better decision making by patients who have “skin in the game.” It's a sentiment shared by Verma. “ The Healthy Indiana Plan is about empowering individuals to take ownership for their health,” Verma said during her confirmation hearing. Seema Verma testifies before the Senate Finance Committee on her nomination to be the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on Feb. 16, 2017. ( Photo: Mandel Ngan, AFP/ Getty Images) Dr.  Jennifer Walthall, secretary of Indiana's Family and Social Services Administration, said the monthly payment requirement is “probably the most looked-at component” of HIP. In a statement about the new report, she said Indiana will “continue to improve” the program “as we address findings through evaluations.” As an indication that the monthly payments aren’t too burdensome, Moser, Indiana's Medicaid director, said the state expected about half the participants would choose HIP Plus, the higher tier of benefits which require the payments. But more than 60% are in that category, he said.“ The level of skin-in-the-game payments was a lot more reasonable than I ever anticipated,” said Carl Ellison, president and CEO of the Indiana Minority Health Coalition. Combined participation in both tiers of coverage is “just a tick below” what was expected, said Brian Tabor, the incoming president of the Indiana Hospital Association, which pushed hard for Indiana to expand Medicaid. About 250,000 of the estimated 350,000 Hoosiers who became newly-eligible have been enrolled, said Tabor, who expects that to go up to about 300,000. The insurance companies which offer the Medicaid plans say Indiana’s payment requirements and two-tiered system is more costly to administer. But Catherine Zito, senior government relations director of Anthem’s Indiana Medicaid operations, said recipients are more involved with their care because having to make an initial payment before accessing the system prompts them to ask questions about the services they could get and how to get them.“ It kind of created engagement with our members from the get-go,” Zito said. Some who work with newly-eligible recipients say the dental benefits available in the higher tier are the main draw for people who could qualify for the basic level without making a monthly payment. The payments got into a Personal Wellness and Responsibility Account, which help pay for services. The POWER accounts are supposed to make patients more efficient users of health care – getting preventive care, not seeking unnecessary care and comparing costs of services. About one in four people making their monthly payments are getting help doing so, according to the latest evaluation, most often from a family member.“ That calls into question this notion that we’re empowering people to make decisions about their health care,” said the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities' Solomon. But Jason Fricke, senior director of operations for MDwise which also offers Medicaid plans in Indiana, said the monthly payments are still an incentive for smarter use of services even if someone else is paying for them. That's because money left in the POWER accounts can be rolled over, he said.  “ That’s just one piece of the responsibility."   Indiana's version of Medicaid, the Healthy Indiana Plan, offers much more than just access to lower-cost health insurance. It also can provide help in finding a job, housing, and transportation as well as a free cellphone and access to educational services.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/314041664/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~President-Trump-congratulates-Frances-Emmanuel-Macron-on-election/
Donald Trump , Emmanuel Macron speak about election, NATO, climate change  President Trump congratulates France's Emmanuel Macron on election President Trump made a Monday phone call to his newest global colleague: French President-elect Emanuel Macron. President Trump congratulates France's Emmanuel Macron on election  President Trump made a Monday phone call to his newest global colleague: French President-elect Emanuel Macron.  President Trump congratulates France's Emmanuel Macron on election David Jackson  Emanuel Macron and Donald Trump  ( Photo: Stephane de Sakutin, AFP/ Getty Images) President Trump made a Monday phone call to his newest global colleague: French President-elect Emanuel Macron. The U. S. president "emphasized his desire to work closely with President-elect Macron in confronting shared challenges, " a White House readout said. The two agreed to meet at the NATO summit in Brussels later this month. According to Reuters, Macron's spokeswoman said the president-elect emphasized the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change during his call with Trump . Trump had tweeted his congratulations to the business-friendly centrist after Macron's defeat of anti-immigration nationalist  Marine Le Pen in the French election was announced Sunday. Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him!— Donald J. Trump (@real Donald Trump ) May 7, 2017   Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump At college commencement speeches in 2017, it's a no- Trump zone on most campuses
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/314009978/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Preventing-Muslim-immigration-statement-disappears-from-Trumps-campaign-site/
Donald Trump 's Muslim immigration statement gone from campaign site ' Preventing Muslim immigration' statement disappears from Trump 's campaign site On Monday morning, President Trump 's campaign website featured his December 2015 statement about "preventing Muslim immigration." Later that afternoon, it did not. ' Preventing Muslim immigration' statement disappears from Trump 's campaign site  On Monday morning, President Trump 's campaign website featured his December 2015 statement about "preventing Muslim immigration." Later that afternoon, it did not. ' Preventing Muslim immigration' statement disappears from Trump 's campaign site Jessica Estepa Protesters hold signs and march outside the US 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., Monday, May 8, 2017. ( Photo: Steve Helber, AP) On Monday morning, President Trump 's campaign website featured his December 2015 statement about "preventing Muslim immigration." Later that afternoon, it did not. The deletion of the statement appeared to come after Cecilia Vega of ABC News asked at Monday's  White House press briefing about the statement: " If this White House is no longer calling this a Muslim ban as it did initially, why does the president's website still explicitly call for 'preventing Muslim immigration'?" Trump spokesman Sean Spicer replied that he wasn't aware of what was on dthe campaign's website and referred questions about the statement to campaign staff." I know how we've talked about this from the first day of this administration: as a travel ban that's in this country's national security interests, as to make sure that people who are coming in here, are coming in here with the right motive and reason," he said. " We've been very consistent." The statement first appeared on Trump 's campaign website on Dec. 7, 2015, less than a week after a Muslim couple killed 14 people and injured 22 others in a mass shooting in San Bernardino. Then a candidate in the GOP primary season, Trump stood by his statement. And while it was controversial, it clearly didn't stop Trump 's momentum. Why did it come up now?  The president's second attempt at a travel ban on six Muslim majority countries began on Monday a new round of federal court hearings. The statement was brought up during proceedings in Richmond. For the record, here's the full statement from Trump 's site (courtesy of the Internet Archive): Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on. According to Pew Research, among others, there is great hatred towards Americans by large segments of the Muslim population. Most recently, a poll from the  Center for Security Policy released data showing "25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad" and 51% of those polled, "agreed that Muslims in America should have the choice of being governed according to Shariah." Shariah authorizes such atrocities as murder against non-believers who won't convert, beheadings and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to Americans, especially women. Mr. Trump stated, " Without looking at the various polling data, it is obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension. Where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine. Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. If I win the election for President, we are going to Make America Great Again."  Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump At college commencement speeches in 2017, it's a no- Trump zone on most campuses
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313945586/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-names-conservatives-for-federal-courts/
 Trump names 10 conservatives to federal courts in opening salvo against liberal trend  Trump names 10 conservatives for federal courts The prospective nominees include two who made the list of potential Supreme Court justices, with more likely to come in the coming months -- giving the president the chance to remake the federal judiciary. Trump names 10 conservatives for federal courts  The prospective nominees include two who made the list of potential Supreme Court justices, with more likely to come in the coming months -- giving the president the chance to remake the federal judiciary.  Trump names 10 conservatives for federal courts Richard Wolf  Published 2:14 p.m. ET May 8, 2017 | Updated 11 hours ago President Trump nominated 10 federal court judges Monday at a time when three Supreme Court justices -- including Anthony Kennedy, here with Trump at the swearing-in of newly confirmed Justice Neil Gorsuch last month -- could be stepping down in the coming years.( Photo: JIM LO SCALZO, EPA)  —  President Trump borrowed a page from George W. Bush's playbook Monday by announcing plans to nominate 10 federal court judges en masse, almost 16 years to the day that Bush named 11 appeals court judges — including a Washington lawyer named John Roberts who soon became chief justice of the United States. Trump 's action represents the opening salvo in what will be at least four years of battles with Senate Democrats over the federal judiciary, one that the president intends to pack with conservatives after President Barack Obama spent eight years tilting nearly every circuit court to the left. It also elevates some rising legal stars who made it on to Trump 's original list of 21 potential Supreme Court justices last year, putting them closer to the nation's high court at a time when Justice Anthony Kennedy, the court's swing vote, is contemplating retirement and two liberal justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer, are long past the average retirement age. Two judges from that list were among the 10 nominees named Monday. Joan Larsen, 48, a Michigan Supreme Court justice, was nominated to serve on the U. S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit. David Stras, 42, a Minnesota Supreme Court justice, was nominated for the 8th Circuit. Previously, federal district court Judge Amul Thapar of Kentucky, who also made Trump 's high court list, was nominated to the 6th Circuit. Others in line for federal appeals courts are Notre Dame law professor Amy Coney Barrett, Kentucky lawyer John Bush and former Alabama solicitor general  Kevin Newsom. Those in line for district courts are Dabney Friedrich, Terry Moorer, David Nye and Scott Palk, while Damien Schiff was in line for the U. S. Court of Federal Claims. Read more: Federal courts will shift to the right under Trump Trump 's win keeps Supreme Court conservative Court challenges to Trump policies may multiply Conservative legal activists applauded the list of nominees, just as they had Trump 's selection in January of federal appeals court Judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court seat vacated a year earlier by Justice Antonin Scalia. Gorsuch, 49, was confirmed last month." When it comes to fulfilling his campaign promise to appoint strong, principled judges, Trump is knocking it out of the park," said Carrie Severino, chief counsel of the conservative Judicial Crisis Network, which spent millions of dollars to help win Gorsuch's confirmation. Combined with Thapar's earlier nomination, Trump now has named six people to serve on federal appeals courts, the traditional stepping stones to the Supreme Court. That's one-fourth of the total number of vacancies on those regional courts." The large number of judicial vacancies gives President Trump a historic opportunity to move the federal courts in the right direction -- towards constitutionalism and away from judicial activism -- in just four years," said Curt Levey, president of the conservative Committee for Justice. It took Obama eight years to liberalize a majority of federal appeals courts.  At the end of Bush's presidency, 10 of the 13 circuit courts had a majority of judges nominated by Republican presidents. Today, nine of them have a majority of Democratic presidents' nominees — including the U. S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit in Richmond, which will hear oral arguments Monday on the administration's effort to impose a travel ban on immigrants from six predominantly Muslim countries. Trump can reverse that advantage in just one term, establishing Republican control over nine appeals courts and leaving three others deadlocked, based on current retirement trends. Only the special appeals court created in 1982 to hear patent and trademark cases would retain a majority of Democratic appointees. The projected reversal is crucial, because while the Supreme Court hears only about 75 cases each term, the appeals courts hear some 30,000. Only the most significant or divisive find their way to the high court, which has slashed its caseload in recent decades. Federal appeals courts have played a particularly crucial role in the past year. Scalia's death in February 2016 left the Supreme Court with only eight members. Republicans' refusal to confirm Obama's nominee — Merrick Garland, the chief judge of the D. C. Circuit court — forced the justices to leave lower court rulings on Obama's immigration plan and the power of labor unions intact following 4-4 votes. Only last month did Gorsuch win confirmation and assume Scalia's seat. Senate Republicans and Democrats view the appeals courts as so important that confirmation battles have stretched longer than two years and led some nominees to withdraw from consideration. One of those nominated by Bush on May 9, 2001, was Miguel Estrada, considered at the time a potential future Supreme Court nominee. He was blocked by Senate Democrats for more than two years and ultimately withdrew. The impact of appeals court judges is clear.  Judges named by Obama to federal appellate and district courts overseeing  North Carolina, Texas, Michigan and  Wisconsin voted during the recent political campaign season against restrictions on voting imposed by Republican legislatures.  In states where Obama's judges had less influence, such as Ohio and Virginia, courts left restrictions on voting in place. Looking ahead, Trump 's appeals court judges could play major roles in cases testing the ability of religious objectors to sidestep government regulations, as well as cases involving the rights of criminal defendants. The Supreme Court's decision in June striking down abortion restrictions in Texas still leaves appeals courts with the job of deciding which types of limits to permit. Another major impact Obama had on lower federal courts could be tested under Trump : the increased prevalence of women, minorities, gays and lesbians. About 43% of all his nominees were women and 36% minorities, surpassing previous records under Bill Clinton.  Republican presidents have nominated less than half that number. A look at Neil Gorsuch, the newest justice of the Supreme Court
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313844104/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Bill-Clinton-to-release-novel-with-James-Patterson/
Bill Clinton, James Patterson collaborating on novel  Bill Clinton to release novel with James Patterson Former president Bill Clinton and author James Patterson are writing a thriller together. ( Yes, really.) Bill Clinton to release novel with James Patterson  Former president Bill Clinton and author James Patterson are writing a thriller together. ( Yes, really.)  Bill Clinton to release novel with James Patterson Jessica Estepa  In this combination photo, former President Bill Clinton, left, appears at a political event at Upper Moreland High School in Willow Grove, Pa. on  April 12, 2012, and author James Patterson appears at a photo session in New York on Aug. 30, 2016 . ( Photo: AP) Former president Bill Clinton and author James Patterson are writing a thriller together. ( Yes, really.) Expect insider details among the intrigue in  THE PRESIDENT IS MISSING, publishers Alfred A. Knopf and Little, Brown and Company said in a release." Working on a book about a sitting president — drawing on what I know about th job, life in the White House and the way Washington works — has been a lot of fun," Clinton said in a statement. " And working with Jim has been terrific. I've been a fan of his for a very long time." The book, out June 2018, will be Clinton's first novel. It will also be Patterson's first collaboration with a president." Working with President Clinton has been the highlight of my career, and having access to his first-hand experience has uniquely informed the writing of this novel," Patterson said in a statement. " I'm a storyteller, and President Clinton's insight has allowed us to tell a really interesting one. It's a rare combination -- readers will be drawn to the suspense, of course, but they'll also be given an inside look into what it's like to be president."  Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump At college commencement speeches in 2017, it's a no- Trump zone on most campuses
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313834622/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Watch-live-Sally-Yates-testifies-to-Congress-on-alleged-Russian-interference-in-presidential-election/
Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election  Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election The USA TODAY NETWORK will have live coverage of this event. Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election  Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election  WASHINGTON, DC - JULY 08: Deputy Attorney General Sally Quillian Yates testifies during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Capitol Hill, July 8, 2015 in Washington, DC. The committee was hearing testimony on encryption technology, and the balance between public safety and privacy.  Sally Yates was abruptly fired as acting attorney general in the first days of the Trump administration for refusing to defend the new president’s controversial travel ban in court. However, it is the extraordinary warning she delivered just four days earlier to the White House counsel’s office about former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn that is the reason for her testimony to Congress on  Monday. You can watch the hearing live in the player above. For the first time publicly, Yates is expected to recount to a Senate panel a Jan. 26 meeting in which she alerted White House Counsel Don Mc Gahn that Flynn had lied to administration officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, about his conversations with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak before Trump 's inauguration. Those misrepresentations, Yates would maintain, made the former Army lieutenant general vulnerable to possible blackmail.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313800056/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Littleknown-Mo-House-member-ends-up-in-middle-of-health-care-debate/
Little-known Mo. House member ends up in middle of health care debate   Little-known Mo. House member ends up in middle of health care debate Rep. Billy Long is not a part of the House Republican leadership, nor is he a committee chairman. Little-known Mo. House member ends up in middle of health care debate  Little-known Mo. House member ends up in middle of health care debate  Published 11:02 a.m. ET May 8, 2017 | Updated 14 hours ago Rep. Billy Long ( C) departs after speaking to the media about health care negotiations with  — Rep. Billy Long is not a part of the House Republican leadership, nor is he a committee chairman. He’s not one of the hard-charging, ultra-conservative Freedom Caucus members, nor is he part of the GOP’s pivotal moderate faction. So how did the former auctioneer from southwest Missouri end up at the center of the legislative battle over replacing Obamacare and help get the president’s top priority through the House? It all started with a tweet, as so many things in Washington do these days.“ BREAKING: Rep. Billy Long ( R- Mo.) tells me he's a NO on new GOP health bill! Brings to 22 the number of NO votes,” tweeted Scott Wong, a Capitol Hill reporter with The Hill newspaper. Those 93 characters ricocheted around Washington— and landed with a thud at the White House. Republicans had already suffered an embarrassing setback in March when they failed to secure enough votes from their own ranks for passage of their first proposal to unravel the Affordable Care Act. The Long tweet came as GOP leaders were trying to round up votes for a new bill — one that included a delicate set of revisions designed to appease both the hardline conservatives and wavering moderates.“ Billy's against me?” Trump  reportedly said when informed of the development. “ Billy was on the campaign!” Long, of Springfield, had supported every previous version of the GOP’s push to repeal and replace Obamacare. So the news that he was not going to go along with the new plan was a shocker. And it signaled that GOP leaders were in a deeper hole on “yes” votes than they may have realized. At issue for Long: Obamacare’s provision banning insurance companies from discriminating against patients with pre-existing conditions by denying them coverage or charging them exorbitant premiums. Under the GOP’s new bill, states could seek a waiver from that requirement, thus letting insurance companies charge higher premiums to some consumers with existing health conditions — anything from asthma to cancer to pregnancy. The exemption would only apply to those buying coverage in the individual market, but critics said it would gut the protections for sick patients, one of the most popular provisions in that 2010 law. Long had campaigned on a promise to repeal the ACA, but, like other Republicans, he’d also said he wanted to keep that protection in place. Long had privately told his staff he would oppose the new measure, but he had not publicly announced his position. That changed on Monday, when Wong caught the congressman in the hallway and asked him how he planned to vote. Within a few hours, Long’s cell phone buzzed; it was the president."' Billy, really need you. We need you man,” Long recounted later of his conversation with Trump . “’ I said, ‘ You don’t have me.'” More than 1,000 miles away, the phone was also ringing in Long’s Springfield office. “ Royce, New York Times on the phone for you.” Royce Reding is Long’s district director, and he’s been with the congressman since his first 2010 campaign for Congress. In the seven years since, Long had only been on national TV a few times, including an appearance after the 2011 Joplin tornado ravaged parts of the 7th congressional district.“ Oh my word,” Reding thought as media requests rolled in fast and furious. “ We’re not used to that type of attention pouring in.” The congressman has never had his name on an amendment that helped push such a major piece of legislation across the finish line in the House. “ For Billy, this was the biggest legislative battle he has fought in his career,” said Reding. Along with the media spotlight came the fury of angry conservatives, who blasted Long for supporting a repeal of the ACA when Obama was still in office and he knew the president would veto it.“… Now, when it counts, and President Trump is ready to sign the bill, Billy has flip-flopped to defend Obamacare,” the president of the Club for Growth, an influential conservative group, said in a blistering statement on Tuesday. Read more:10 things Trump care changes in health care Dems rebuke, GOP applauds health care vote These House Republicans were key to the health care bill Long has not publicly explained why he supported the previous bills to kill the ACA — including the law’s pre-existing conditions protections — but could not bring himself to support this one. But Reding said that Long grew concerned after analyzing the bill that it would leave some sick people in the lurch.“ That was enough for Billy to stand back, put his heels in the ground, and say, ‘ I’m a no on this,’” Reding said. Long’s daughter, now 28, was treated for Hodgkin’s lymphoma in 2015. Reding said that experience “personalized” the debate for him, but it was not a driving factor in his objection to the GOP bill.“ It made it real,” Reding said. “ He could understand people’s plights (because) he’s lived it. But long before his daughter’s illness, he had promised to protect pre-existing conditions.” As Long dug in, another influential GOP lawmaker, Rep. Fred Upton from Michigan, also came out against the bill on Tuesday — expressing the same concerns about pre-existing conditions. As pressure from the White House ratcheted up, Upton and Long started quietly discussing a legislative fix: adding $8 billion over five years to the underlying bill, aimed at helping those patients who would be hit with higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs. Trump called both Upton and Long on Tuesday, pushing them in separate conversations to change their minds. Both said no, unless the White House agreed to their new language.“ He got a little angry, but I have a thick skin,” Upton recounted. “ It was, you know, give and take.” The White House declined to talk about the president’s conversations with the two congressmen. But Trump ’s call to Long was even testier, according to Reding.“ Let us talk to you about this amendment I have, and I think we can work something out,” Long said to the president. “ The president said, ‘ No, I’m not doing that. We’re not changing it,'" said Reding, adding that the call ended abruptly. If the White House didn’t want yet another tweak to the bill, it’s no wonder. It was already a carefully negotiated compromise. Any new provision — especially one with an $8 billion price tag — could drive away conservatives in the Freedom Caucus and torpedo the bill again. But Trump ’s hard line softened after Republican leaders told the White House they would not have enough votes to pass the bill without Upton and Long on board. By Tuesday night, the two congressmen had an appointment at the White House for the next morning. On Wednesday morning, the small House GOP contingent met with Trump and other top White House officials for about an hour. When Long, Upton and others emerged from the West Wing, they were met by a phalanx of reporters with television cameras rolling and microphones out." With this addition that we brought to the president and sold him on," Long said, he and Upton had moved to the "yes" column.“ The guy that sealed the deal?” Upton told reporters. “ Billy Long.” Whether the deal was a good one is a point of sharp debate. Health care experts say $8 billion over five years is not nearly enough to cover the potential health care costs of millions of people with serious illnesses. Patient and physician groups strongly opposed the final bill, and so did 20 Republican House members, most of them moderates. Rep. Charlie Dent, R- Penn., called the bill "haphazardly constructed and hastily considered." He predicted it would "increase health insurance costs — particularly for low-to-moderate income Americans, increase the number of uninsured by up to as many as 24 million people, and undermine important protections for those living with pre-existing conditions." Long and Upton said they were confident the $8 billion would be plenty. No one knows how many states will seek a waiver, they noted. And under the GOP bill, residents of those states will not be subject to higher premiums as long as they maintain “continuous” coverage, with no gaps. Long said those with pre-existing conditions "need to be covered, period." As the bill headed for House passage, Long seemed surprised at his role and ready to retreat from the limelight. He noted that he has never joined any of the ideological caucus in the House, saying “ I don’t like that group-think thing.”“ I’m a member of the Show- Me caucus, just one guy,” Long said.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313766654/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~JFKs-grandson-Jack-Schlossberg-Without-Obama-I-might-still-be-sitting-on-my-couch/
Jack Schlossberg, JFK's grandson, introduces Obama for courage award  JFK's grandson Jack Schlossberg: Without Obama, ' I might still be sitting on my couch' If the name " Jack Schlossberg" comes up in politics in a few years, you'll have Barack Obama to thank. JFK's grandson Jack Schlossberg: Without Obama, ' I might still be sitting on my couch'  If the name " Jack Schlossberg" comes up in politics in a few years, you'll have Barack Obama to thank.  JFK's grandson Jack Schlossberg: Without Obama, ' I might still be sitting on my couch' Jessica Estepa  Jack Schlossberg and mother Caroline Kennedy presented Obama with the award, likening the impact Obama had on him with the influence his grandfather had on the country.  Time If the name " Jack Schlossberg" comes up in politics in a few years, you'll have Barack Obama to thank. Schlossberg, the son of Caroline Kennedy and only grandson of  President John F. Kennedy, said Obama inspired him in 2008, likening it to the way his grandfather galvanized a generation to enter public service when he asked his fellow Americans what they could do for their country." Without Barack Obama, I might still be sitting on my couch, eating Doritos and watching sports," the 24-year-old said Sunday while introducing the former president, the latest recipient of the annual JFK Profile in Courage award. He praised Obama, saying it took courage to pursue health care reform and to address climate change aggressively, among other issues." He showed me and my generation what is possible from our politics and gave us a new standard of political courage to guide us going forward," he said. " He connected us to one another with his hope and his determination. We all, especially young Americans, owe a great debt to this courageous president. Following Schlossberg's introduction, Obama took the stage, critiquing the efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act while never mentioning President Trump by name." I hope that current members of Congress recall that it actually doesn’t take a lot of courage to aid those who are already powerful, already comfortable, already influential," he said. " But it does require some courage to champion the vulnerable and the sick and the infirm — those who often have no access to the corridors of power.  I hope they understand that courage means not simply doing what’s politically expedient, but doing what they believe deep in our hearts is right." Schlossberg's speech on Sunday night came a couple days after he gave his first live interview on the Today show, alongside his mother. He said he would support Caroline Kennedy if she ran for office. He's also still working out what he wants to do." I'm inspired by my family's legacy of public service," he said. " It's something that I’m very proud of, but I'm still trying to make my own way, figure things out, so stay tuned." Read more: In speech, Obama takes aim at Trump , Republicans From Obama's JFK Library speech, the 8 most biting quotes about Trump and Republicans  Sally Yates warned White House that Michael Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail President Trump seizes on election rules to push his agenda in new ways Trump issues broad, ' Bush-style' signing statement on spending bill Watch live: Sally Yates testifies to Congress on alleged Russian interference in presidential election Trump 's immigration travel ban faces familiar foe in appeals courts: Trump At college commencement speeches in 2017, it's a no- Trump zone on most campuses
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/313723004/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~From-Obama%e2%80%99s-JFK-Library-speech-the-most-biting-quotes-about-Trump-and-Republicans/
From Obama’s speech, the 8 most biting quotes about Trump and Republicans  From Obama’s JFK Library speech, the 8 most biting quotes about Trump and Republicans Here of some of Obama's more pointed quotes, most of which appear directed at Trump as well as in defense of Obamacare. From Obama’s JFK Library speech, the 8 most biting quotes about Trump and Republicans  Here of some of Obama's more pointed quotes, most of which appear directed at Trump as well as in defense of Obamacare.  From Obama’s JFK Library speech, the 8 most biting quotes about Trump and Republicans  Former President Barack Obama was honored with the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award in Boston Sunday. The ceremony at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum was among Obama's first public appearances since leaving office. ( May 7)  APFormer President Barack Obama addresses an audience after being presented with the 2017 Profile in Courage award during ceremonies at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston on Sunday.( Photo: Steven Senne, AP)  Though he didn’t mention him by name, much of former President Barack Obama’s speech when he accepted a Profile in Courage Award at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library on Sunday evening seemed aimed at President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress who are attempting to dismantle Obama’s signature Affordable Care Act ( ACA), also known as Obamacare. Here of some of his more biting quotes, most of which appear directed at Trump as well as in defense of Obamacare:*** About members of Congress who voted to pass the ACA during his presidency, only to lose their seat in later elections .“ They had a chance to insure millions. But this vote could also cost them their seats, perhaps end their political careers. … These men and women did the right thing. They did the hard thing. … Their desire to retain a reputation for integrity was stronger than a desire to remain in office.”*** About today’s members of Congress:“ It is my fervent hope and the hope of millions ... [that] such courage is still possible, that today’s members of Congress, regardless of party, are willing to look at the facts and speak the truth, even when it contradicts party positions.”*** Describing those in a Boston cancer ward (before the ACA), as told to him by Sen. Edward Kennedy, whose son Ted Jr. was being treated there:“ These parents lived in constant fear of what might happen if they could not afford the next treatment, some calculating in their own minds what they might have to sell or borrow just to make it for a few more months. Some bargaining with God for whatever they could get.”*** About leadership:“ Any fool can be fearless. Courage, true courage, derives from that senses that of who we are. What are our best selves? What are our most important commitments?”“ It doesn’t take a whole load of courage to aid those who are already powerful, already comfortable, already influential. But it does require courage to champion the vulnerable, and the sick, and the infirm. Those who have no access to the corridors of power.”“ That very Kennedy-esque idea that America is not the project of only one person but that each of us can make a difference and all of us ought to try.”*** On immigrants and immigration: I think of … every American who stands up for immigrants because they know that their parents or grandparents or great-grandparents were immigrants too. And they know that America is an idea that only grows stronger with each person who adopts our common creed.”*** About diversity and tolerance:“ Everywhere we see the risk of falling into the refuge of tribe, clan and anger at those who don’t look like us, have the same surnames or pray the way we do. … At such moments we need courage to stand up to hate, not just in others but within ourselves. At such moments we need the courage to stand up to dogma, not just in others but within ourselves.” MORE COVERAGEObama: There's no 'courage' in aiding the already powerful
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/322306404/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Conservative-media-not-sold-on-story-of-Trump-revealing-classified-info/
Conservative media not sold on story of Trump revealing classified info The conservative media was highly skeptical of "The Washington Post" story that President Trump revealed classified intelligence to Russian diplomats and more accepting of the administration's denials than other news organizations. Conservative media not sold on story of Trump revealing classified info The conservative media was highly skeptical of "The Washington Post" story that President Trump revealed classified intelligence to Russian diplomats and more accepting of the administration's denials than other news organizations. Conservative media not sold on story of Trump revealing classified info William Cummings President Trump's national security adviser says a Washington Post report that says Trump shared intelligence with Russia "is false." USA TODAYA great deal has been written and said about the media divide in the United States — or how Americans tend to follow news organizations that reinforce their political beliefs — and that divide was clearly in evidence Monday in the wake of a Washington Post story alleging President Trump shared classified information with Russian diplomats during a meeting at the White House.For example, a glance at the three major cable news networks at 8:20 p.m. ET revealed the following banners on the bottom of the screen:CNN — Wash Post: Trump shared highly classified info with Russians MSNBC — Dem congressman calls for impeaching Trump Fox News — Liberals melting down & turning violent While CNN and MSNBC focused on the report from the Post and the reaction from Trump's opponents, Fox News focused on a perceived hysteria among liberals — a tactic the network also employed in the wake of the firing of former FBI director James Comey.Just under an hour later, Fox News ran a banner reading, "McMaster: Washington Post story on Russia meeting is false," while CNN's banner read, "Sources: Trump shared classified info with Russian foreign minister."On the Fox News website, the top story at 9:30 p.m. ET was about Hillary Clinton and the launch of her "Onward Together" PAC. The story about Trump was programmed beneath that under the headline, "'It didn't happen': WH denies report Trump revealed classified info."Read more:Lawmakers slam reports Trump revealed classified intel to Russians5 unanswered questions from latest Trump-Russia intelligence leakTrump's tweets on mishandled classified info come back to haunt him'Post' scoop on Trump's Russia leak sets new reader recordOn Breitbart, the top headline read "Deep State Strikes: Leaks Classified Info To Washington Post To Smear Trump, LOL: Reporters Negate Oversold Headline In 7th Paragraph."The "deep state" refers to a theory repeatedly propagated by Breitbart since Trump took office, which says a cadre of government officials loyal to former President Obama have been working behind the scenes to undermine Trump.The 7th paragraph from the Post story that the Breitbart headline refers to reads, "As president, Trump has broad authority to declassify government secrets, making it unlikely that his disclosures broke the law." The headline implies since the president did not break the law, the story is of little importance.Read more: Is it legal for Trump to share classified intelligence? Yes, but risky, experts sayThe second headline on Breitbart was, "McMaster: WAPO Story 'False' — 'I Was In The Room, It Didn't Happen'." An accurate summation of the denial issued by Trump's national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster.On The Washington Times website, the top story was "Officials dispute report Trump revealed classified information to Russians."By contrast, CNN led — after obtaining their own unnamed sources — with a wide, banner headline reading, "Sources: Trump shared classified info with Russians." Four other stories critical of the White House preceded a video of McMaster's denial.On the Fox News show Hannity, host Sean Hannity opened by attacking the sources of the leaks to the Post."No White House can sustain these types of constant leaks," he said. "So, if you're in the White House, and you're this, if you're not there to serve your country and all you're doing is hurting the country, well, then you might want to get out of the way."Hannity proceeded to report on the Comey firing and "the worst liberal media feeding frenzy in American history" that followed. He went on to explain why he believes Comey deserved to be fired and why Clinton should have been prosecuted for her handling of classified material on a private email server. The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington 
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/322182628/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~unanswered-questions-from-latest-TrumpRussia-intelligence-leak/
5 questions on Donald Trump's classified intelligence leak to Russia What is the White House denying? Why did Donald Trump do it? Who leaked? Are there tapes? 5 unanswered questions from latest Trump-Russia intelligence leak A bombshell report by the Washington Post cites government officials who reportedly say the President discussed classified information with Russians. USA TODAYThis file handout photo taken on May 10, 2017 made available by the Russian Foreign Ministry shows shows US President Donald J. Trump posing with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov during their meeting at the White House. (Editor's note: USA TODAY does not generally use government handout photos but makes exceptions where there is extraordinary news value.)(Photo: Russian Foreign Ministry via AFP/Getty Images)  WASHINGTON — Reports that President Trump shared top secret intelligence about Islamic State terror threats with Russian diplomats in the Oval Office last week led to quick denials from the White House Monday.But the details of the Washington Post report and the White House explanations leave many unanswered questions, including:What is the White House denying?Several senior administration officials have denied the Washington Post report, calling it "false." But the White House is rebutting points that weren't reported in the story. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster said the president did not reveal sources and methods.But the Post did not allege he did. According to the Post, Trump "did not reveal the specific intelligence-gathering method, but he described how the Islamic State was pursuing elements of a specific plot and how much harm such an attack could cause under varying circumstances."  Specifically, according to the Post's anonymous sources, Trump revealed the Islamic State-controlled city where the plot was first detected — information that the Russians could use to piece together information about possible sources.Washington Post reporter Greg Miller, who broke the story with colleague Greg Jaffe, accused the White House of "playing word games" in its denial.Why did he do it?There's no question that the president has the legal authority to divulge classified information — even to rivals and adversaries. What complicates this incident is that the information wasn't his to give: The information came from an unnamed U.S. ally.McMaster said the exchange came as Trump and the Russian diplomats "reviewed a range of common threats to our two countries." He did not say that the Russians offered any intelligence in return.And the Washington Post report suggests that Trump's motive was to boast. “I get great intel. I have people brief me on great intel every day,” Trump told the Russians, according to an official who spoke to the Post.Who leaked?As with past controversies, the White House will likely fight back by deploring the leaks of classified information about a sensitive Oval Office meeting.And there's no shortage of possible suspects in the leaks. Trump has had a strained relationship with the intelligence community. He has accused agencies of illegally spying on him during the campaign and he fired the FBI director the night before the Oval Office meeting with the Russians.The antagonism between Trump and the intelligence community was laid bare over the weekend, when former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said U.S. institutions were "under assault" from Trump.Are the conversations recorded?The report is likely to put even more pressure on the White House to confirm or deny the existence of Oval Office tapes. That issue first exploded last week when Trump tweeted that James Comey — the FBI director he had just fired — "better hope that there are no 'tapes' of our conversations." But since then, the White House has refused to discuss whether those tapes exist, even as members of Congress have demanded that they be preserved as evidence in investigations into the growing investigations into Russian interference during the 2016 presidential election.The Washington Post reported that there was a transcript of the meeting, but those can be compiled from stenographers and National Security Council note-takers without the use of an audio recording.What will the diplomatic consequences be?The Washington Post did not identify the third country that provided the intelligence to the United States. But it's entirely possible that Trump could meet with that country on his upcoming foreign trip.In Saudi Arabia on Saturday, he's expected to meet with the Persian Gulf nations in the Gulf Cooperation Council. He'll then travel to Israel next week, followed by meetings with NATO allies in Brussels, the Group of Seven in Sicily.FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedInThe Trump presidency: A new era in Washington 
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/322009428/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Lawmakers-slam-reports-Trump-revealed-classified-intel-to-Russians/
Lawmakers called reports that Trump disclosed "highly classified information" to Russian officials "inexcusable" and "deeply disturbing." ​ A bombshell report by the Washington Post cites government officials who reportedly say the President discussed classified information with Russians. USA TODAYPresident Donald Trump meets with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, left, next to Russian Ambassador to the U.S. Sergei Kislyak at the White House in Washington, Responding to reports that President Trump revealed "highly classified information" to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador at the White House last week, lawmakers called the alleged disclosures “inexcusable” and “deeply disturbing.”The Washington Post, citing current and former U.S. officials, reported that Trump provided Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak classified intelligence that was so sensitive it had been withheld from allies – and under close hold within the U.S. government as well."To compromise a source is something that you just don't do," Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker, R-Tenn., said. "That's why we keep the information that we get from intelligence sources so close...to prevent that from happening."As the White House pushed back on the story and criticized the use of anonymous sources – "the story that came out tonight, as reported, is false," insisted Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, the president's national security adviser – Democrats issued a flurry of statements denouncing Trump's reported actions.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said Trump owed the intelligence community, Americans and Congress "a full explanation" of what happened.  "If the report is true, it is very disturbing," he said in a statement. "Revealing classified information at this level is extremely dangerous and puts at risk the lives of Americans and those who gather intelligence for our country."Sen. Mark Warner, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee said that if the news was true, it was "a slap in the face to the intel community.""Risking sources & methods is inexcusable, particularly with the Russians," tweeted Warner, whose panel is separately investigating a hacking campaign by the Russians to influence the 2016 election.Other Democrats are calling for action. The top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Eliot Engel of New York, said "this certainly raises questions about whether the president recognizes the serious implications of disclosing such sensitive information to an adversary" and called for Congress to establish an independent commission to investigate the reports.And Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, insisted the administration and intelligence committee "must immediately and fully brief" his panel "on what, if anything, was shared with Russian officials, and whether it could impact either our sensitive sources and methods, or our intelligence sharing relationships."New Mexico's Sen. Martin Heinrich, a Democratic member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, sent out a biting remark on Twitter.Protip: Don’t give the Russians classified information. #Classified101— Martin Heinrich (@MartinHeinrich) May 15, 2017During the meeting, Trump described details of an Islamic State threat related to using laptop computers on aircraft, the Post reported. Additionally, he revealed the city in the Islamic State's territory where the U.S. partner detected the threat – which could damage a critical source of intelligence on the terror group.According to the Post, the president appeared to boast of his knowledge of a looming threat. "I get great intel," Trump said. "I have people brief me on great intel every day."Trump and the United States reportedly did not have permission to share the information from the partner who provided the details. According to an official who spoke to the Post, the president "revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than we share with our own allies." Senior White House officials apparently called the CIA and National Security Agency after the meeting to try to "contain the damage."Read more: Is it legal for Trump to share classified intelligence? Yes, but risky, experts say'Post' scoop on Trump's Russia leak sets new reader recordTrump's tweets on mishandled classified info come back to haunt him5 unanswered questions from latest Trump-Russia intelligence leakYet the Trump administration on Monday evening denied the report. "There is nothing that the president takes more seriously than the security of the American people," McMaster said. "The president and the foreign minister reviewed a range of common threats to our two countries including threats to civil aviation. At no time were intelligence sources or methods discussed. And the president did not disclose any military operations that were not already publicly known."Two other senior officials who were present, including the secretary of State, remember the meeting the same way and have said so. Their on- the-record accounts should outweigh those of anonymous sources. I was in the room – it didn't happen."In Trump's meeting with Lavrov, added Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, "a broad range of subjects were discussed, among which were common efforts and threats regarding counterterrorism. During that exchange, the nature of specific threats were discussed, but they did not discuss sources, methods or military operations."The Post story, however, did not explicitly say that Trump disclosed sources and methods; it said Trump discussed information in a way in which sources and method could be deduced.The White House denials did not appear to convince the Democratic National Committee, which said in a statement: "Russia no longer has to spy on us to get information – they just ask President Trump and he spills the beans with highly classified information that jeopardizes our national security and hurts our relationships with allies."And back on Capitol Hill, Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa., along with a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., both resurfaced comments from House Speaker Paul Ryan last year lamenting the danger of individuals who are "extremely careless" with classified information.Ahem... Senator Bob Casey (@SenBobCasey) May 15, 2017Does the President sharing classified info with Russia count, Mr. Speaker? Matt House (@mattwhouse) May 15, 2017Ryan had sent letters to then-FBI director James Comey and then-national intelligence director James Clapper after the FBI closed its investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server when she was secretary of State. He requested that Comey release all unclassified findings in the Clinton investigation and that Clapper refrain from classified briefings with Clinton during the campaign, for fear information could be exposed – though Ryan said the classified briefings could resume if she was elected.Doug Andres, a spokesman for House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said, “We have no way to know what was said, but protecting our nation's secrets is paramount. The speaker hopes for a full explanation of the facts from the administration."Contributing: Heidi The Trump presidency: A new era in Washington 
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/322108614/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trumps-tweets-on-mishandled-classified-info-come-back-to-haunt-him/
Trump's tweets on mishandled classified info come back to haunt him Trump has slammed the media, Clinton and Obama for being careless with sensitive material. Trump's tweets on mishandled classified info come back to haunt him William Cummings A bombshell report by the Washington Post cites government officials who reportedly say the President discussed classified information with Russians. USA TODAY President Trump has made it clear that he has no tolerance for leaks or careless treatment of classified material, just ask Hillary Clinton. But the president himself was guilty of some loose lips during a recent (and controversial) visit to the Oval Office by Russian officials, according to a report from The Washinton Post. Now, before you start chanting "Lock him up," remember that the president has a lot of authority to declassify material. But, given the whole Russia investigation, allegations of collusion and the recent firing of FBI Director James Comey, it's fair to say this falls under what the kids these days refer to as "bad optics." Here's a look, in reverse chronological order, at how Trump himself has viewed people who play fast and loose with sensitive material: The real story that Congress, the FBI and all others should be looking into is the leaking of Classified information. Must find leaker now!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security "leakers" that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even......— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017Leaking, and even illegal classified leaking, has been a big problem in Washington for years. Failing @nytimes (and others) must apologize!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 16, 2017The real scandal here is that classified information is illegally given out by "intelligence" like candy. Very un-American!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017Hillary's staff thought her email scandal might just blow over. Who would trust these people with national security? Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2016.@HillaryClinton’s Careless Use Of A Secret Server Put National Security At Risk: Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 5, 2016 WikiLeaks proves even the Clinton campaign knew Crooked mishandled classified info, but no one gets charged? RIGGED! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 17, 2016Lyin' Hillary Clinton told the FBI that she did not know the "C" markings on documents stood for CLASSIFIED. How can this be happening?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 4, 2016Hillary Clinton should not be given national security briefings in that she is a lose cannon with extraordinarily bad judgement & insticts.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 30, 2016Crooked Hillary Clinton and her team "were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information." Not fit!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 6, 2016 FBI director said Crooked Hillary compromised our national security. No charges. Wow! #RiggedSystem— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 5, 2016China, Russia and Iran are laughing at us. We have weak leaders who are threatening our national security. Dangerous times.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2013Military reps have attacked @BarackObama over Bin Laden leaks--they believe he's just using this for his benefit. Not a big surprise...— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 16, 2012It is terrible that @BarackObama did not appoint an independent counsel to investigate the national security leaks. No accountability.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2012The Justice Department's investigation into the national security leaks is not independent. This is a very grave situation.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 11, 2012
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/322143362/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~OnPolitics-Today-Who-needs-spies-when-the-president-might-tell-you-himself/
Who needs spies when the president might tell you himself? Happy Monday, OnPolitics peeps. We hope you had a Spicey weekend and that your hair doesn't blow us all away. Who needs spies when the president might tell you himself? Jessica Estepa Donald Trump and the man he may have told classified info to (aka Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov) (Photo: Handout, AFP/Getty Images)It was shaping up to be a quiet Monday, OnPolitics peeps. And then this happened: The Washington Post broke a major story about President Trump reportedly revealing CLASSIFIED INFORMATION to the RUSSIANS. The White House, of course, is denying the report.And that is how our Monday night has gone.It's OnPolitics Today, or the Roundup Formerly Known As For the Record. Subscribe here.Trump may have revealed classified informationWe can't even joke about this one. Our president, the commander-in-chief of the United States, allegedly told the Russian foreign minister and the Russian ambassador classified information. According to the Post, Trump described details of an Islamic State threat related to using laptop computers on aircraft. Additionally, he revealed the city in the Islamic State's territory where a U.S. intelligence partner detected the threat – which could damage a critical source of intelligence on the terror group. The reaction went about the way you expected it to. The White House called the story "false." The Democrats are, for lack of a better phrase, freaking the heck out. As of 8 p.m., three whole Republicans, including House Speaker Paul Ryan, have expressed their concerns. As commander-in-chief, Trump *can* do this. But should he? Our favorite summation comes from Democratic Sen. Martin Heinrich of New Mexico: "Protip: Don’t give the Russians classified information. #Classified101"He said, he saidSpeaking of whether things are true or not, here is a fact for you: there are a number of times when the White House and Trump have said things that are false. Like the time when Sean Spicer insisted that the Trump inauguration had "the largest audience." Or the time that the president claimed he had been wiretapped by the Obama administration. Or the time that the firing of James Comey was pinned on the deputy attorney general (see below). Trump faces the largest credibility gap since since Richard Nixon (who, you know, resigned) and Lyndon B. Johnson (who, you know, decided not to run for a second term). And here's the thing: That doesn't appear to really bother the president, as USA TODAY's Susan Page notes.Oh yeah and the Comey fallout is still ongoing obviouslyHas it really been less than a week since news broke that the president fired FBI director James Comey? Here's what you need to know about the latest: Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein — aka the guy that was blamed for the firing before Trump told everyone, "No, it was MY IDEA" (not an actual quote) — will brief senators on Thursday about said decision on Comey. That sounds absolutely awful for Rosenstein, especially since Democrats are skeptical over the reasoning given for Comey's firing (namely, that he mishandled the investigation in Hillary Clinton's emails). Also, the White House still isn't going to say a thing about whether there are Comey tapes and the meetings between Trump and Comey meetings were highly unorthodox to begin with.Elsewhere in politics landThe president hates leaks, btwWe are totally in favor of a rolling podiumHillary's launching a group to counter Trump because sure, whateverTrump administration missing mark on opioids, advocates sayThe Supreme Court will not hear the North Carolina case on voting rights James Clapper: U.S. institutions 'under assault' by President TrumpLawmakers slam reports Trump revealed classified intel to RussiansChelsea Manning to remain on active duty, receive health care after prison releaseHillary Clinton launches political group Onward Together to counter TrumpWatch live: White House press briefing with Sean Spicer Analysis: Donald Trump has biggest credibility gap of any president since Nixon
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/223123356/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Meet-the-new-US-senators/
Meet the new U.S. senators A raucous election cycle ended with very little change in the U.S. Senate, as most of the endangered Republicans managed to hold on to their seats. Here are the seven newly elected senators who make up the 2017 freshman class.Catherine Cortez MastoNevada DemocratDemocrat Catherine Cortez Masto’s victory in the Nevada Senate race is groundbreaking for the Silver State.She is the first woman to represent Nevada in the Senate and the first Latino woman in the chamber's history. Her paternal grandfather immigrated to Nevada from Chihuahua, Mexico.Catherine Cortez Masto walks on stage in Las Vegas on Nov. 8, 2016, after winning her Senate race.(Photo: Ethan Miller, Getty Images)The former two-term attorney general replaces retiring Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid. Losing the seat would have been a devastating blow for Democrats, though even with this win they did not take control of the Senate.Cortez Masto, 52, ran an aggressive campaign based on foundational Democratic policy proposals — raising the minimum wage, protecting Social Security and Medicare, and passing comprehensive immigration reform.She was the candidate whom Reid hand-picked to replace him after serving in the Senate for nearly 30 years. Reid helped to remake the face of Nevada by using his power to direct federal funding to the state.Cortez Masto defeated Republican Rep. Joe Heck, a physician who reached the rank of brigadier general in the U.S. Army Reserve.Outside groups poured more than $90 million into the race, and top officials from both parties were frequent visitors.Cortez Masto will be expected to be a solid Democratic vote in the Senate and be supportive of party leadership.— Bill TheobaldTammy DuckworthIllinois DemocratDemocrat Tammy Duckworth easily defeated incumbent Republican Sen. Mark Kirk in one of the least surprising Senate victories this year.She had led by double digits in recent polls, and a majority of Illinois voters in one recent survey said they thought Kirk hadn’t recovered enough from a stroke he suffered in 2012 to perform his Senate duties.Tammy Duckworth celebrates her win over incumbent Sen. Mark Kirk, R-Ill., on Nov. 8, 2016, in Chicago.(Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP)Duckworth is a two-term congresswoman and veteran who lost both legs when the helicopter she was riding in was shot down in Iraq in 2004.After a yearlong recovery at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, she went on to serve stints as director of the Illinois Department of Veterans’ Affairs and as an assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs. On Capitol Hill, Duckworth has made veterans issues a priority, and she helped pass legislation to provide resources to prevent veteran suicide, among other initiatives.During the Senate campaign, she said she would back working with Russia to establish a no-fly zone in Syria and putting more pressure on NATO allies, including Turkey, to help oust the Syrian regime. Duckworth also said public-private partnerships should be leveraged to provide tuition-free community college vocational training, which would be a first step toward free community college for all. She also backs increased investment in infrastructure.— Donovan SlackKamala HarrisCalifornia Democrat California’s next senator was the front-runner from the day in January 2015 she announced her candidacy, saying she would be “a fighter for the next generation.” In a sense, at age 52, Kamala Harris is getting the first opportunity of anyone in her own generation to win a Senate seat in California.Barbara Boxer, 75, who announced last year she wouldn’t be seeking a fifth term, was first elected to the Senate in 1992 replacing the late Alan Cranston, who was resigning after four terms. Dianne Feinstein, 83, was elected the same year to finish out the term of Pete Wilson, who had been elected governor, and has remained in the Senate ever since.Kamala Harris greets supporters at a election night rally on Nov. 8, 2016 in Los Angeles.(Photo: Chris Carlson, AP)Harris, a career prosecuting attorney before being elected and re-elected as the state’s attorney general, will be the first African American and Indian American to represent the Golden State in the Senate. She defeated 10-term Rep. Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat-vs-Democrat general election. Her path to the seat was not as steep as once predicted, as former and current Los Angeles mayors Antonio Villaraigosa and Eric Garcetti, Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer decided not to run.As attorney general she is perhaps best known for negotiating the settlement with bankers over illegal mortgage practices that brought billions to underwater California homeowners. She is also known as an expert on tackling recidivism — she wrote a book, Smart on Crime, about it — and making parents responsible for truant children. As district attorney of San Francisco city and county, she was known for antagonizing local police when she declined to seek the death penalty for a cop killer in 2004, her first year in office.Harris is also known to have a good relationship with departing President Obama, who once described her as “by far the best-looking attorney general in the country.”Unlike the outspoken Boxer she’s replacing, Harris has been called cautious. Asked at the only general election debate last month what committee assignments she’ll seek, for example, she said she was concentrating on the election and wouldn’t look beyond it.—Bartholomew SullivanMaggie HassanNew Hampshire DemocratDemocrat Maggie Hassan eked out a win to unseat incumbent Republican Kelly Ayotte in one of the tightest races in the country.Hassan, 58, has been governor of New Hampshire since 2013, and before that, she was a state senator for six years, including a stint as majority leader before losing re-election in 2010.Maggie Hassan waves to supporters during an election night rally in Manchester, N.H., on Nov. 9, 2016.(Photo: Charles Krupa, AP)During her tenure as governor, Hassan maintained high job approval ratings, with a Morning Consult poll earlier this year gauging her support 56% favorable and only 33% unfavorable.She campaigned for Senate on a pledge to work across the aisle to make Washington work better for middle-class Americans and touted her prior record in New Hampshire, where she froze tuition at state universities and lowered it at community colleges and passed two budgets without raising sales or income taxes.A lawyer by trade, Hassan started in public service as an advocate for special-needs children after the eldest of her two children, Ben, now 28, was born with cerebral palsy. Her campaign said she was driven to “ensure that children like her son Ben, who experiences severe disabilities, would be fully included in their communities and have the same opportunities that all parents want for their children.”— Donovan SlackJohn KennedyLouisiana RepublicanLouisiana Republican John Kennedy pulled off a win on Dec. 10 in the last Senate race of 2016.Kennedy, the state treasurer, defeated Public Service Commissioner Foster Campbell in a runoff to become the latest soon-to-be-member of the Senate.Kennedy, a former Democrat, had unsuccessfully run twice for the Senate seat. He beat Campbell 63% to 37%.John Kennedy delivers a victory speech during an election party on Dec. 10, 2016, in Baton Rouge, La.(Photo: Jonathan Bachman, Getty Images)The race had garnered national attention with its unprecedented field of 24 candidates, including former Ku Klu Klan leader David Duke. It also attracted attention when Republican powerhouses came in to help Kennedy in the final weeks of the campaign.President-elect Donald Trump, Vice President-elect Mike Pence and Mississippi Sen. Roger Wicker, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, traveled to the Pelican State to stump for Kennedy the week before the runoff. Kennedy had supported Trump, who easily won the state.Campbell, meanwhile, didn’t get much help from national Democrats. Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards, who is popular in the state, endorsed Campbell early in the campaign, but it wasn’t enough.Campbell had hoped to take advantage of Edwards’ upset in 2015 when he defeated Republican Sen. David Vitter in the red state.Kennedy ran unsuccessfully for Senate in 2004 (as a Democrat) and in 2008 (as a Republican), but he entered the race as a favorite because of his statewide name recognition. Kennedy had won five statewide races and had years of political experience, including a stint as special counsel to former Republican governor Buddy Roemer.During the campaign Kennedy, a fiscal conservative, took aim at the Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s signature issue. Obama is unpopular in the state.“I want my country back. I’m scared we are losing it,” Kennedy said when he announced his bid to run. “I worry that America is losing those (conservative) values.”Kennedy was the front-runner leading up to the runoff. He had nabbed 25% of the vote in the Nov. 8 election, while Foster came in second with 17%. In Louisiana, the top two candidates go to a runoff if the winner of the general election does not reach 50% of the vote.—  Deborah Barfield Berry and Greg Hilburn.Chris Van HollenMaryland DemocratSooner or later, Chris Van Hollen was going to be a U.S. senator.The six-term congressman from Maryland literally grew up in government. Van Hollen was born in Pakistan, where his father was serving in the foreign service, and lived in several foreign outposts as a child. His father ultimately served as U.S. ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Van Hollen did his graduate studies at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where he met his wife, Katherine, and they both wound up with jobs on Capitol Hill.Chris Van Hollen speaks to supporters in Silver Spring, Md., after his Senate victory on Nov. 8, 2016.(Photo: Jose Luis Magana, AP)Van Hollen's first gig was working for Maryland's legendary Sen. Charles "Mac" Mathias, a famously moderate Republican.First elected to Congress on his own in 2002, Van Hollen quickly moved up the ladder of leadership among House Democrats. He led the Democrats' House campaign operation for the 2008 and 2010 election cycles, getting a good reputation among his colleagues for being a prodigious fundraiser. The 2006 Almanac of American Politics said Van Hollen, then still in his second House term, is "among the many Democrats in the Maryland delegation interested in running for a Senate seat when one comes open." He took a pass on the 2006 race won by Democrat Ben Cardin, but the retirement this year of 30-year veteran Sen. Barbara Mikulski was likely to be his last shot for a long while.The major hurdle to his promotion this year was a tough primary battle against Rep. Donna Edwards, a more liberal African-American lawmaker who argued that Van Hollen would be too cozy with Wall Street. The race seemed close at first, but Van Hollen ultimately won by a better than 10% margin.In the general election he had little trouble dispatching his Republican opponent, delegate Kathy Szeliga, in a state where registered Democrats outnumber registered Republicans by a 2-to-1 margin.— Paul SingerTodd YoungIndiana RepublicanRepublican Todd Young, a former Marine who mentioned that fact in nearly every campaign conversation, won Indiana’s open Senate seat by defeating one of the most formidable Indiana politicians: Evan Bayh.It was not the race Young had expected.Todd Young, accompanied by his wife, Jenny, celebrates winning his Senate race on Nov. 8, 2016, in Indianapolis.(Photo: Michael Conroy, AP)After his decisive May primary win over a Tea Party-backed opponent, Young was set to face former congressman Baron Hill, the Democrat he defeated in a 2010 House race.But Hill withdrew from the race in July, clearing the way for Bayh — a former U.S. senator with more than $9 million in leftover campaign funds — to go after the seat being vacated by retiring Republican Sen. Dan Coats.Republican leadership and outside groups – including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce – came to Young’s aid as they had in the primary.The election became a referendum on Bayh. Young and his allies accused Bayh of leaving Indiana behind and cashing in when, instead of seeking re-election in 2010 after voting for the Affordable Care Act, Bayh went to work for a Washington law and lobbying firm and for a private equity fund.The attacks steadily eroded the good feelings Hoosiers had of Bayh from his two terms as senator and governor, even as Young remained unknown to many voters.In the House, Young had been among the minority of Republicans who joined Democrats in voting for a deal to end the 2013 partial government shutdown.His willingness to cast tough votes helped him win a seat on the influential Ways and Means Committee, where he threw himself into overhauling the tax code and exploring a new way of funding social services programs.Young said he hopes in the Senate to be known as one of the “go-to experts” on helping the poor and vulnerable.Young’s political experience before running for Congress included stints with the conservative Heritage Foundation and working on energy policy for then-senator Richard Lugar.While Young, 44, did not grow up in a politically active home, his wife is the niece of former vice president Dan Quayle — who ended Bayh’s father’s Senate career in 1980.Young has slept in his Capitol Hill office in recent years while keeping his home in Bloomington with his wife, Jenny, and their four children.— Maureen Groppe
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/135833595/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~USA-TODAYs-blog-on-all-things-political
Conservative media not sold on story of Trump revealing classified infoReaction to the Monday's Washington Post story about Trump and Russian officials is more evidence of the U.S. media divide.May 16, 2017 @ 6:03 a.m. EDTTrump's tweets on mishandled classified info come back to haunt himTrump has slammed the media, Clinton and Obama for being careless with sensitive material.May 16, 2017 @ 5:28 a.m. EDTWho needs spies when the president might tell you himself?Happy Monday, OnPolitics peeps. We hope you had a Spicey weekend and that your hair doesn't blow us all away.May 15, 2017 @ 8:37 p.m. EDT'Post' scoop on Trump's Russia leak sets new reader recordYou'll never guess what story set the previous record. (Hint: it was about Trump)May 16, 2017 @ 6:01 a.m. EDTTrey Gowdy drops out of running for FBI DirectorGowdy said he shared his "firm conviction that I would not be the right person" with the attorney general.May 15, 2017 @ 5:34 p.m. EDTU.S. Capitol installs ducks rampsSave the baby ducks!May 15, 2017 @ 4:31 p.m. EDTTrump team won't explain Comey 'tapes'"I made it clear last week that the president has nothing further on that," Spicer saysMay 15, 2017 @ 4:39 p.m. EDTTrump says he'll praise police while others won'tPresident Trump said he's not afraid, as some politicians are, to praise law enforcement.May 15, 2017 @ 2:07 p.m. EDTWisconsin investor sells stock as he considers Senate runIs investor and potential GOP Senate candidate Eric Hovde preparing to self-fund his second statewide campaign?May 15, 2017 @ 1:06 p.m. EDTReports: Callista Gingrich to be nominated as Vatican ambassadorCallista Gingrich, the wife of former House speaker Newt Gingrich, is set to be President Trump's pick for ambassador to the Holy See, according to reports.May 15, 2017 @ 10:09 a.m. EDTTillerson not worried about his independenceThe secretary of State said Sunday that he "has to earn (President Trump's) confidence every day."May 14, 2017 @ 5:18 p.m. EDTEx-Justice Department officials call for special counsel in Russia probeIn a letter to DOJ brass, the group praised fired FBI director James Comey as 'ethical.'May 13, 2017 @ 1:47 p.m. EDTMichelle Obama slams Trump school lunch plans, says kids will eat 'crap'A fiery former first lady says something is "wrong" when the government doesn't want kids to eat healthy meals.May 15, 2017 @ 2:59 p.m. EDTTwitter CEO: It's important to hear what Trump has to sayTwitter CEO Jack Dorsey defended President Trump's use of his platform, emphasizing the importance of hearing from the man himself for the sake of accountability.May 13, 2017 @ 2:43 a.m. EDTThis week in OnPolitics: You're fired!To begin, we present you with our best attempt at a Hamilton rap on the 8th anniversary of Lin Manuel Miranda performing at the White House:May 12, 2017 @ 5:25 p.m. EDTIs the ethics office trolling Trump?Ethics chief Walter Shaub has criticized Donald Trump t beforeMay 12, 2017 @ 6:12 p.m. EDTWikiLeaks offers $100K for Trump-Comey tapesWikiLeaks has offered $100,000 to anyone who can send them any tapes of conversations between President Trump and former FBI director James Comey.May 12, 2017 @ 3:12 p.m. EDTTrump team: No Russian income with 'exceptions'Trump team says there's no evidence his campaign colluded with Russians in 2016 election.May 12, 2017 @ 5:35 p.m. EDTTwitter turns 'with few exceptions' into a memeAs Twitter quickly pointed out Friday, you can say just about anything is true with few exceptions.May 12, 2017 @ 11:32 a.m. EDTComey gets the 'United' treatment on 'New Yorker' coverAnd Jeff Sessions is the cop dragging him off the plane.May 12, 2017 @ 10:50 a.m. EDTOnPolitics Today: Trump contradicted himself on the Comey firingIt took two days for Trump to undermine his own narrative.May 11, 2017 @ 10:30 p.m. EDTPoll: Majority of Americans don't like AHCAJust one in five Americans support the Obamacare repeal and replacement plan passed by the House of Representatives last week.May 11, 2017 @ 6:07 p.m. EDTPresident Trump agrees with Rosie O'Donnell — sort ofThe Rosie O'Donnell-Donald Trump feud takes a new turn, with the firing of James Comey this week.May 11, 2017 @ 5:42 p.m. EDTTrump: I might release taxes after presidencyIn an Economist interview, Trump says no one but "reporters' cares about his tax returns.May 11, 2017 @ 5:40 p.m. EDTPoll: Majority don't think Comey firing was appropriateA majority of Americans don't believe President Trump's sudden firing of James Comey was appropriate, according to a new poll.May 11, 2017 @ 5:47 p.m. EDTFlorida Gov. Rick Scott wants to rebrand the GOPScott wants to refashion the party's image as an instrument better suited for the 21st century.May 11, 2017 @ 1:29 p.m. EDTCollege lacrosse team enters field to Trump speechWho'd have thought a bunch of guys who play lacrosse at a private college would like Trump?May 11, 2017 @ 3:36 p.m. EDTPresident Trump and the true origin of 'priming the pump'While speaking with The Economist, President Trump made some interesting statements about the phrase "priming the pump."May 11, 2017 @ 11:43 a.m. EDTTrump states among hardest hit by proposed cutsThe three traditionally Democratic states which flipped for President Trump would be among the hardest hit by grant programs Trump wants to eliminate.May 11, 2017 @ 10:15 a.m. EDTTrump, Nixon and Watergate: What's the same?There are similarities between President Richard Nixon, President Trump and Watergate.May 11, 2017 @ 1:53 p.m. EDTIn letter, James Comey urges respect for FBI"Working with you has been one of the great joys of my life," Comey told his ex-colleagues in a letter.May 11, 2017 @ 9:02 a.m. EDTOnPolitics Today: This Russia thing ain't going awayMany people are saying this is #Nixonion.May 10, 2017 @ 7:43 p.m. EDTTrump's meeting with Russians closed to U.S. media, but not to TASS photographerAssociated Press, other agencies, had to get photos from the Russian state-owned agency.NewsMay 10, 2017 @ 5:53 p.m. EDTWhat we know about investigations into Trump campaign and RussiaTrump's firing of the FBI Director raises a ton of questions about how it will affect ongoing investigations into Russia's interference in the 2016 elections.May 11, 2017 @ 10:29 a.m. EDTPoll: Unemployed voters were more likely to pick ClintonUnemployed Americans were more likely to vote for Hillary Clinton than Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election -- but they were almost just as likely not to vote at all, according to a new survey out Wednesday.May 11, 2017 @ 11:10 a.m. EDTHow did we get here? A James Comey timelineJames Comey's FBI career has spanned three decades, though took an unusually public profile over the course of the 2016 presidential election and after.May 10, 2017 @ 9:40 a.m. EDT#NotNixonian: Richard Nixon library pokes at TrumpWhat does it say about your presidency when Richard Nixon's presidential library is mocking you?May 10, 2017 @ 9:06 a.m. EDTFull text of Trump's letter telling Comey he's fired"I wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors."May 9, 2017 @ 9:06 p.m. EDTTweets fly fast and furious following firing of FBI head ComeyNeedless to say, this one brought out a lot of strong reaction.May 9, 2017 @ 9:43 p.m. EDTOnPolitics Today: 'Fired by Trump' Club welcomes James ComeyWhew! That's another ex-official who can never bother Trump again, just like Sally Yates and Mike Flynn.May 9, 2017 @ 7:23 p.m. EDTWho else has President Trump fired?James Comey, the now former FBI director, became on Tuesday the latest to join the growing list of officials President Trump has fired in the early days of his presidency.May 9, 2017 @ 9:07 p.m. EDTFirst bunny Marlon Bundo makes first White House appearanceA bunny upstaged Vice President Pence Tuesday.May 9, 2017 @ 6:14 p.m. EDTMeet the women who could sit on the Senate health care working groupOf the 13 Republican senators who are working to craft legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare, none of them are women.May 9, 2017 @ 4:53 p.m. EDTJimmy Carter voted for Bernie SandersJimmy Carter told a crowd he voted for Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in the 2016 presidential election.May 9, 2017 @ 3:47 p.m. EDTPence first to congratulate Eric Trump's baby newsVice President Pence was the first person to call Eric Trump after the president's son announced he will be a dad.May 9, 2017 @ 12:45 p.m. EDTFBI: Director's testimony on Clinton aide was inaccurateThe FBI's letter to a Senate panel clarified that Comey's testimony about top Clinton aide Huma Abedin was wrong.May 9, 2017 @ 5:43 p.m. EDTIowa congressman storms out of interviewU.S. Rep. Rod Blum got an earful from his constituents at a Monday town hall, shortly after he walked out of an interview with a local reporter.May 9, 2017 @ 3:04 p.m. EDTJerry Springer compares 'Trumpcare' to 9/11Jerry Springer listens to a lot of outrageous comments on his sleazy, daytime television show – and now he's making one of his own.May 9, 2017 @ 11:44 a.m. EDTSally Yates schools Ted Cruz on the lawFormer acting attorney general Sally Yates and Republican Sen. Ted Cruz went head-to-head into a heated exchanged over the President’s travel ban Monday.May 9, 2017 @ 12:43 p.m. EDTBill Clinton, James Patterson partner on novelFormer president Bill Clinton and author James Patterson are writing a thriller together. (Yes, really.)May 9, 2017 @ 10:53 a.m. EDTOnPolitics Today: Sally Yates told us soHappy Monday, OnPolitics readers! We hope you're ready for another week of politics goodness. After tiring themselves out with that healthcare vote last week, the House is out on vacay/recess/district working period.May 8, 2017 @ 6:29 p.m. EDTTrump congratulates France's Macron on electionPresident Trump made a Monday phone call to his newest global colleague: French President-elect Emanuel Macron.May 9, 2017 @ 7 a.m. EDT'Preventing Muslim immigration' statement disappears from Trump siteOn Monday morning, President Trump's campaign website featured his December 2015 statement about "preventing Muslim immigration."May 9, 2017 @ 6:03 a.m. EDTJFK's grandson: Without Obama, 'I might still be sitting on my couch'If the name "Jack Schlossberg" comes up in politics in a few years, you'll have Barack Obama to thank.May 8, 2017 @ 4:01 p.m. EDT
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/160675552/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Congress-and-guns-Key-moments-in-years-of-death-and-debate/
Congress and guns: Key moments in 26 years of death and debate Congress is gridlocked over guns, but that has not always been the case. If passed, the legislation would block terrorism suspects from purchasing guns. Video provided by Newsy NewslookIn the wake of the June 12 Orlando nightclub massacre, Congress has found itself gridlocked over what to about guns — or whether to do anything at all.This has been the pattern in recent memory: a tragedy; a heartfelt speech; a call for action; and a stalemate. But since 1990, Congress has actually legislated on guns repeatedly, sometimes tightening and sometimes loosening regulations. Here's a timeline of key moments in 26 years of gun debate.Nov. 29, 1990President George H. W. Bush signs the Gun-Free School Zone Act of 1990, which prohibits firearms in school zones.Oct. 16, 1991George Hennard, 35, crashes his pickup truck into a Luby’s cafeteria in Killeen, Texas and guns down 22 people.Nov. 30, 1993President Bill Clinton signs the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, requiring gun buyers get background checks when purchasing guns from federally licensed dealers and implementing a five-day waiting period. (Photo: Marcy Nighswander, AP)Sept. 13, 1994Clinton signs the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, prohibiting the manufacture or importation of semiautomatic assault weapons and increasing penalties for criminal use of firearms.April 26, 1995The U.S. Supreme Court decides the Gun-Free School Zone Act is unconstitutional during the United States v. Lopez case.Sept. 30, 1996Congress enacts the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban, which prohibits persons convicted of misdeameanor domestic violence crimes or under restraining orders from possessing, using or transporting guns.Oct. 21, 1998Clinton signs The Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemented Act of of 1999, which requires federal firearm licensees to sell gun storage and safety devices.April 20, 1999Columbine High School students Eric Harris,18, and Dylan Klebold, 17, open fire at school, killing 13 people and injuring 21 more in Littleton, Colo. (Photo: Michael S. Green, AP)Nov. 25, 2002President George W. Bush signs the Homeland Security Act of 2002, establishing the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.Sept. 13, 2004The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act assault-weapon ban expires after 10 years.March 21, 2005Jeffrey Weise, 16, kills seven people and injures five more at a shooting in Red Lake High School in Red Lakes, Minn. He also killed his grandfather and his grandfather's girlfriend before heading to the school.Oct. 26, 2005Bush signs the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, stopping certain litigants from recovering damages against firearm dealers and manufacturers when guns are unlawfully used.April 16, 2007Seung Hui Cho, 23, goes on a shooting spree at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va., killing 32 people. (Photo: Matt Gentry, AP)Jan. 8, 2008Bush signs the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007, which improves federal and state electronic recordkeeping for use in background checks on people ineligible to possess firearms due to mental illness or domestic violence.Nov. 5, 2009U.S. Army Maj. Nidal Hasan, 45, fatally shoots 13 people and injures 30 others at Fort Hood near Killeen, Texas.Jan. 8, 2011Jared Lee Loughner, 27, opens fire at a constituent event for Rep. Gabrielle Giffords in a Casas Adobes, Ariz. supermarket parking lot, killing six people and critically injuring Giffords. (Photo: Kelly Presnell, AP)July 20, 2012James Holmes, 28, shoots and kills 12 people in an Aurora, Colo., movie theater.Dec. 14, 2012Adam Lanza, 20, guns down 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.April 18, 2013Senate rejects Nevada Democratic Sen. Harry Reid's Safe Schools Act of 2013, which would have required background checks for every firearm sale. (Photo: Evan Vucci, AP)Sept. 16, 2013Gunman Aaron Alexis, 34, fatally shoots 12 people and injures three others at the Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters at the Washington Navy Yard in D.C.June 17, 2015Dylan Roof, 22, opens fire at a weekly Bible study at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., killing nine people.Oct. 1, 2015Christopher Harper-Mercer, 26, shoots and kills an assistant professor and eight students in a classroom at Umpqua Community College near Roseburg, Ore. (Photo: Anna Reed, Statesman Journal)Dec. 2, 2015Syed Farook, 28, and Tashfeen Malik, 29, open fire at a San Bernardino County Department of Public Health holiday party, killing 14 people and injuring 22 others in San Bernardino, Calif.Dec. 3, 2015Senate rejects measures to expand background checks for guns purchased online and at gun shows and an amendment to prevent individuals on the terror watch list from purchasing firearms.Jan. 5, 2016President Obama issues executive actions that include hiring more people to run the FBI background check system and asks Congress for $500 million to increase access to mental health care.June 12, 2016Omar Mateen, 29, opens fire in a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., leaving 49 dead and 53 injured. (Photo: Craig Rubadoux, Florida Today)June 20, 2016Senate rejects four gun measures to expand background checks and ban gun sales to people on the terror watch list.June 22, 2016House Democrats stage a day-long sit-in on the chamber floor, demanding a vote on gun control measures. House Republicans refuse the demand, calling the sit-in a "publicity stunt."Contributing: Donovan Slack
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321971218/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Hillary-Clinton-launches-political-group-Onward-Together-to-counter-Trump/
Hillary Clinton launches political group, Onward Together, to lead fight against Trump. Hillary Clinton formally launched Onward Together, a political nonprofit group that she said is 'dedicated to advancing the progressive vision that earned nearly 66 million votes in the last election.'  WASHINGTON — Hillary Clinton is back.The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee on Monday formally launched Onward Together, a political nonprofit group that she said is "dedicated to advancing the progressive vision that earned nearly 66 million votes in the last election."The group is poised to help fund some of the organizations at the forefront of liberal efforts to push back on President Trump's agenda and to seize seats from Republicans in Congress. Clinton said Onward Together will support groups such as Swing Left, which is working to elect Democrats to the House, and Indivisible, a rapidly expanding organization of anti-Trump activists who are using tactics borrowed from conservative Tea Party activists to oppose Trump and to challenge congressional Republicans at town hall meetings."This year hasn't been what I envisioned," Clinton said in one of a series of tweets Monday afternoon announcing her move, "but I know what I'm still fighting for: a kinder, big-hearted, inclusive America. Onward!"Clinton said the group, whose leadership includes former Vermont governor and 2004 presidential candidate Howard Dean, will "encourage people to get involved, organize and even run for office.""More than ever," she said, "I believe citizen engagement is vital to our democracy. I'm so inspired by everyone stepping up to organize and lead."We're launching Onward Together to encourage people to get involved, organize, and even run for office. Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 15, 2017The former secretary of State kept a low profile immediately after the election — venturing for walks in the woods near her New York home and steadfastly ignoring reporters' questions when she attended Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration. But she has been increasingly vocal. During a March speech, for instance, she attacked Republicans for efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. She also is working on a new book of personal essays that is slated to be released this fall.On Monday, Republicans criticized Clinton's return to the world of politics."The American people rejected Hillary Clinton six months ago because she's completely out-of-touch, untrustworthy, and embraced the failed policies of the past," Michael Ahrens, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said in a statement. "If Democrats were smart, they’d realize it’s time to move onward from Hillary Clinton altogether.”And conservatives are likely to use Clinton's involvement to cast anti-Trump groups as arms of the Democratic establishment. Earlier this year, Trump complained on Twitter that many of the "so-called angry crowds" confronting Republican lawmakers were "planned out by liberal activists."Nathan Gonzales, who edits the non-partisan newsletter Inside Elections, said Clinton's involvement will energize the Republican base, but he said Clinton is unlikely to emerge as the "defining" figure of the 2018 midterm elections or the anti-Trump movement. "When the party isn't in the White House, everyone thinks they are in charge and knows the way," he said.The Democracy Alliance, an influential network of liberal donors, also has begun to connect with new groups, such as Indivisible.Julie Kohler, a top Democracy Alliance official, said Clinton's help is welcome. "Right now, it's all hands on deck," she said. "With her visibility and credibility on these issues, it's real net gain."Clinton signaled her support for Swing Left earlier this month with a tweet, backing the group's fundraising drive to help Democrats in 35 swing districts occupied by Republicans who voted this month to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The drive raised $1.3 million, Swing Left spokeswoman Michelle Finocchi said.Finocchi said any financial support from Clinton's group will help pay for operating expenses, including hiring staffers.Read more: Hillary Clinton knocks Trump's proposed diplomacy cuts for hurting women around worldClinton officials respond to Comey firing with suspicion, not satisfaction
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321825276/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Rep-Trey-Gowdy-a-former-FBI-contender-keeps-making-Republican-short-lists/
Rep. Trey Gowdy, a former FBI contender, keeps making Republican short lists During a White House meeting Monday with with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President Donald Trump said his search for an FBI Director is "moving rapidly" following his dismissal last week of James Comey. (May 15) APRep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC), center, speaks with fellow members of the House Intelligence Committee during a hearing on alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election. Gowdy is being considered for FBI director.(Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY)  WASHINGTON — People who know Rep. Trey Gowdy say he isn’t seeking powerful roles within the government and would rather be at home with his family, but Republicans — and even some Democrats — keep pushing him to do more.After the abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey last week, the South Carolina Republican's name made it onto the short list of possible replacements for Comey's post. Gowdy withdrew his name from consideration late Monday afternoon.Gowdy said he told Attorney General Jeff Sessions that the FBI director needed to have "impeccable credentials" and also "unite the country as we strive for justice and truth." He also said that he shared with Sessions "my firm conviction that I would not be right person."But Gowdy has some fans, even across the aisle, who would have preferred to see him lead the law enforcement agency.“Dems are going to hate me for this. I don't care. The best replacement for Comey is Trey Gowdy. He's as honest as day is long,” tweeted former South Carolina State Rep. Bakari Sellers, who is a Democrat. Sellers posted the tweet last week before Gowdy withdrew.Gowdy doesn’t seek out high-profile posts, and yet, he keeps getting put up for them. He’s on three of the most coveted House committees: Intelligence, Judiciary and Oversight. Gowdy also led the special committee to investigate the terrorist attack in Benghazi and recently was named as a top Republican in the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia probe.Gowdy is close to Republican leadership and well-liked in the conference, plus he’s a former prosecutor and known for his in-depth — and often intense  — lines of questioning. In his 16 years as a prosecutor Gowdy never lost a case, according to Rolling Stone.“Our voting records, if we were in Congress together, we would probably share about 3%, 4% of the same votes and those would probably be post office namings. But the fact is, based on what Donald Trump has to choose from, I’ll take Trey over any of those guys,” Sellers told USA TODAY before Gowdy withdrew from consideration. Sellers said Gowdy’s time as solicitor general of the 7th Circuit gives him credibility for the role: “Trey was always fair.”Gowdy was one of two current Republican lawmakers being considered for the post, the other is Texas Sen. John Cornyn who is apparently still in the running. Former House Intelligence Chair and retired FBI agent Mike Rogers remain on the list. Other candidates come from within the FBI or have other law enforcement or legal backgrounds, according to the White House.Read more:Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe: Comey's firing won't impede Russia investigationJames Comey doesn't quibble with Trump's right to fire him“No, goodness gracious” Gowdy doesn’t seek out these opportunities, Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C. told USA TODAY.“People keep asking him to do things that are uncomfortable for him because his skill set is such an unusual skill set as a prosecutor who looks for the truth and doesn’t really get into the debate,” said Scott, who has been close to Gowdy since the two were elected to the House of Representatives in 2010. “He’d be good at any leadership position that he decided to fill.”Scott and Gowdy eat dinner together most nights the two are in Washington. Neither drinks alcohol and Scott said they’re both introverts — though if you’ve watched either in a public setting that statement may come as a surprise. They talk about scripture and Scott entertains Gowdy with stories of his dating life. Gowdy talks about his life being married with two kids. Through these conversations Scott has also been able to glean that staying in Congress is not a long-term goal of his friend’s. Gowdy's office declined to comment for this story.“He's perfect for that (FBI) post. America would be lucky,” said South Carolina attorney Beattie Ashmore before Gowdy dropped out. Ashmore worked as a federal prosecutor with Gowdy in the 1990s."I trust Trey’s judgement implicitly and I’ve been in the trenches with Trey,” Ashmore said.“He will do well at whatever he decides to do. (To) do something half-way is not in his DNA,” said Doug Smith a long-time friend of Gowdy’s and former Speaker Pro Tempore of the South Carolina House of Representatives.Gowdy is currently in his fourth term in Congress which he won by two-thirds of the vote. And in this deeply Republican district where the primary essentially decides who will win, no Republicans have challenged him since his first race in 2010.Gowdy led the Benghazi Committee’s probe into what happened during the 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya that killed four Americans went for more than two years and cost $7.8 million.In the end, the panel did not single out wrongdoing by former secretary of State Hillary Clinton but many Democrats accuse Gowdy and the panel’s Republicans of using the committee to mount a political attack against Clinton. The accusation was inflamed when House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said during the campaign that because of the committee, Clinton’s poll numbers were dropping.Read more:House Benghazi committee files final report and shuts downAs Nunes steps aside, Gowdy takes leadership role in Russia probe“He is most well-known for using public roles to political ends and that may be something that President Trump likes about him but it’s the opposite of what bipartisan majorities in the Senate say they want,” Jesse Ferguson, a Democratic strategist and former spokesman for Clinton's presidential campaign, told USA TODAY.Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said that Trump should not appoint someone from Congress to head the FBI. Other Republican lawmakers have stressed the importance of someone who will act independently regardless of the political environment.Gowdy "weaponized his role with the oversight committee to target his political opponents in the last election. That’s what they do in (Russia’s intelligence, formerly known as the KGB) not our FBI," Ferguson continued.Former South Carolina Democratic Party Chairman Dick Harpootlian was no fan of the Benghazi investigation or how Gowdy handled it, but he thinks that was just one piece of the Gowdy he knows.“He’s got a pretty level head on his shoulders. Now, those folks who only know him from the Hillary Clinton Benghazi House Committee hearing I don’t think have a fair view of him. I certainly did not think that went particularly well for him or the committee in the way it was handled,” said Harpootlian, who now works as an attorney in Columbia, S.C. “But having said that, Donald Trump could do a lot worse than Trey Gowdy — and I have a feeling he will.”The new FBI director, among other things, will inherit the law enforcement agency’s investigation into Russian meddling the 2016 election. That role will include looking into possible connections to the Trump campaign.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321997290/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trey-Gowdy-drops-out-of-running-for-FBI-Director/
Trey Gowdy drops out of running for FBI Director Eliza Collins Rep.Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., speaks during the House Intelligence Committee hearing on alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election. Monday Gowdy removed himself from the list of candidates to be FBI director. (Photo: Jack Gruber, USA TODAY)WASHINGTON — Trey Gowdy has pulled himself out of the running to be FBI Director.The South Carolina Republican announced Monday that he told Attorney General Jeff Sessions what qualities he thought the FBI director should have and informed him of “my firm conviction that I would not be the right person.”“Our country and the women and men of the FBI deserve a Director with not only impeccable credentials but also one who can unite the country as we strive for justice and truth. I am confident that person will emerge,” Gowdy said in a statement.Gowdy was one of a handful of candidates that the White House and Justice Department were considering to replace FBI Director James Comey who was fired last week. James Clapper: U.S. institutions 'under assault' by President TrumpLawmakers slam reports Trump revealed classified intel to RussiansChelsea Manning to remain on active duty, receive health care after prison release Hillary Clinton launches political group Onward Together to counter TrumpWatch live: White House press briefing with Sean SpicerAnalysis: Donald Trump has biggest credibility gap of any president since Nixon
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321930992/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Does-Trump-tape-his-conversations-White-House-still-wont-say/
White House still won't say whether Donald Trump 'tapes' conversations Does Trump 'tape' his conversations? White House still won't say"I think I made it clear last week that the president has nothing further on that," White House spokesman Sean Spicer said. Does Trump 'tape' his conversations? White House still won't say "I think I made it clear last week that the president has nothing further on that," White House spokesman Sean Spicer said. Does Trump 'tape' his conversations? White House still won't say David M Jackson President Trump (Photo: Andrew Harnik, AP)WASHINGTON – Days after President Trump brought up the possibility he may have "tapes" of his talks with FBI director James Comey, he and aides still won't say for sure whether or not the president secretly records conversations – even in the Oval Office or his residences."I think I made it clear last week that the president has nothing further on that," White House spokesman Sean Spicer said, in response to multiple questions from reporters on Monday.James Comey better hope that there are no "tapes" of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 12, 2017At another point, Spicer said, "I think the president's made it clear what his position is."But the president's actual position is not that clear.Reporters have tried and failed to parse whether Trump's apparent threat to Comey in a Friday morning tweet – "James Comey better hope that there are no 'tapes' of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!" – was serious or not."Well, that I can't talk about," Trump told Fox News over the weekend. "I won't talk about that. All I want is for Comey to be honest and I hope he will be and I'm sure he will be, I hope."Meanwhile, senators who are seeking more details about Comey's dismissal say that Trump must preserve and turn over tapes, if they exist. Former associates are also saying that the real estate mogul does have a history of taping his conversations.Asked if the president would cooperate with Congress on any requests for Comey recordings, Spicer said, "The president has nothing further on that."
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321862116/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Trump-administration-missing-mark-on-opioids-advocates-say/
Trump administration missing mark on opioids, advocates say Opioid epidemic rages while Trump officials send mixed messages and deliver few results, experts say President Donald Trump campaigned across the country promising to fix the opioid crisis, but public health advocates say his early moves are poised to make it far worse. USA TODAYPresident Donald Trump (C), New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (L) and Attorney General Jeff Sessions (R) attend a panel discussion on an opioid and drug abuse in the Roosevelt Room in March.(Photo: Pool, Pool, Getty Images) WASHINGTON — As the opioid epidemic continues to escalate, the Trump administration has sent mixed messages and delivered few results in its handling of the epidemic so far, lawmakers and advocates say.“There’s some positive signs in terms of all the talk, but we haven’t really seen any action,” said Dr. Andrew Kolodny, an addiction physician and co-director of opioid policy research at Brandeis University.As a candidate, Trump vowed to “dramatically expand access to treatment” and reduce the availability of heroin, oxycodone, and other opioids.But even as Trump has kept the opioid epidemic in the spotlight — drawing much needed public attention to the problem — the White House and top Trump advisers have taken other steps that some fear could undermine efforts to combat addiction.“There have been a couple of warning signs that have concerned me,” said Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security committee.Take these examples:•Trump’s budget office is considering a proposal to eliminate funding for two major anti-drug programs, raising alarm bells in Congress about the president’s commitment to put money behind the rhetoric;•The White House has yet to fill its “drug czar” position, after floating a controversial candidate for that post who has since withdrawn; and•Trump’s attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has endorsed hardline enforcement and interdiction policies, which some advocates say will undermine efforts to treat addiction as public health issue.Read more:Amid opioid epidemic, White House may cut drug control office budgetTrump hears from addicts as Christie takes helm of opioid commissionSen. Claire McCaskill opens probe of opioid drugmakersThe last move came on Friday, when Sessions directed federal prosecutors to seek the toughest possible charges against suspected criminals. Critics say that could send low-level drug offenders to prison instead of treatment.“At the very moment we've reached a broad, bipartisan consensus and begun to reform our overly punitive policies at the state and federal level, President Trump is poised to turn back the clock,” Grant Smith, deputy director of national affairs at the Drug Policy Alliance, wrote in a recent op-ed. “It is difficult to overstate what a major historical misstep this would be, and how many lives could get chewed up and spit out by the new throwback approach.” The Drug Policy Alliance is a Washington-based group that advocates treatment over incarceration for drug offenders.In an interview, Smith said the Trump administration has made all sorts of promises “to slow down the opioid epidemic and ramp up treatment but it’s actually been the opposite.”White House officials have defended the president’s record and said he remains committed to tackling the epidemic. "When it comes to the opioid epidemic, the president has been extremely clear. This is a top priority for him," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters earlier this month.The number of overdose deaths involving opioids has quadrupled since 1999, killing 91 Americans every day, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The crisis has been exacerbated by a spike in the use of synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl, which are super potent and very deadly.Nationally, more than 5,500 Americans died from overdoses involving illegally made synthetic opioids in 2014, a 79 percent increase from the previous year, according to data from the CDC.In March, Trump created a bipartisan task force on opioids and tapped New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to lead the effort.  Christie, who has earned accolades for his work on addiction in New Jersey, said the task force would make recommendations to the president on interdiction, treatment and prevention.“Addiction is a disease, and we need to treat it that way,” Christie said in an interview with Fox News after his appointment. He promised to get “people the help that they need to renew their lives.”Sen. Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican who has championed federal assistance to tackle the epidemic, said Christie will serve as a “smart” and “passionate” voice on the issue. But some say there's no need for a new group to study the opioid crisis, and Portman said the White House can’t wait for recommendations from its new panel to tackle the addiction crisis, which has hit Ohio particularly hard.“It’s overall good but they need to get it moving,” Portman said, adding that the task force should not “take away from the other things” the White House can act on now.Portman and others raised alarm bells earlier this month when news leaked that the White House was considering deep cuts to the Office of National Drug Control Policy. According to internal documents, the president's budget officials have proposed a 95 percent cut in the ONDCP budget, killing two major anti-drug programs and decimating its staff.The White House has emphasized that no final budget decisions have been made, and lawmakers in Congress are pressing hard for a reversal on that plan.Such a cut would run “counter to everything that President Trump had said in the campaign and also inconsistent with the severity of the problem right now,” Portman said in an interview last week.Portman has also pressed the White House to name a “drug czar” who will focus on the epidemic as a public health issue, focused on reducing demand for opioids through treatment and prevention. That is a high-profile position with a bully pulpit to shape drug policy and push for critical resources.The White House was considering Rep. Tom Marino — a Republican from Pennsylvania and former prosecutor — for that post. But Marino withdrew from consideration, citing a family illness, after his hardline record on drug enforcement came under attack from the Drug Policy Alliance and other groups.A White House spokesman declined to comment on Monday about the status of the search for a drug czar candidate.Portman and others said even though they were concerned about some moves by the Trump administration, they were encouraged that the president himself was talking about the issue and drawing attention to it.“He continues to say some right things. That alone is important,” Portman said.US President Donald Trump shakes hands with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie during a meeting about opioid and drug abuse in the Cabinet Room at the White House in Washington, DC in March (Photo: NICHOLAS KAMM, AFP/Getty Images)
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321825280/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Deputy-Attorney-General-Rosenstein-to-brief-senators-Thursday-on-Comey-firing/
Comey firing: Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein to brief senators Thursday Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein to brief senators Thursday on Comey firing Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions had recommended Comey's dismissal Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein will be questioned by the Senate Thursday, explaining why he recommended the firing of former FBI Director James Comey. Nathan Rousseau Smith (@fantasticmrntae) explains. Buzz60Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein leaves the Hart Senate Office Building on May 11, 2017.(Photo: Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images) WASHINGTON — Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein will brief senators on Thursday about President Trump’s decision to fire former FBI Director James Comey.The closed-door, all-senators briefing, which he agreed to last week, is set for 2:30 p.m., a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., announced on Monday.Senate Democratic Leader Charles Schumer, of New York, had called on McConnell to arrange the meeting, and signaled Democrats plan to push for a special prosecutor to take over the probe."I hope that senators from both sides of the aisle will use this opportunity to seek the full truth regarding Director Comey’s firing, to press the Deputy Attorney General to make way for a special prosecutor, and to ensure the administration will preserve and make public any audio recordings of conversations between the President and the former director," Schumer said in a statement.Rosenstein, along with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, recommended that President Trump dismiss Comey, citing his controversial handling of the investigation into former secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server.But Democrats, and some Republicans, have been skeptical of that reasoning, given that the FBI is investigating possible collusion between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government.Feeding that premise, Trump told NBC last week that he was thinking of "this Russia thing" when he made the decision, calling it a "made-up story." He also said he had already planned to fire Comey regardless of Rosenstein's recommendation.Read more:Fact check: Trump's 'nothing to see here' spin on Comey firingDeputy AG Rod Rosenstein not ready to appoint special prosecutor for Russia investigationThe ultimate decision on whether to seek an outside counsel falls to Rosenstein because Sessions has recused himself from any involvement in the Russia probe. Rosenstein has indicated that he is not yet inclined to do that, a person familiar with the matter said Friday.On Sunday, Schumer told CNN he would support calls to block the nomination of a new FBI Director until a special prosecutor is appointed.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi on Monday also called for a full House briefing from Rosenstein, decrying the "distressing disparity of information being made available to the Senate." She also asked House Speaker Paul Ryan to have Comey brief House members, noting that he has been invited to testify in the Senate."The people’s representatives on both sides of the Capitol must have the opportunity to hear from and interrogate the key figures in the FBI Director’s firing," she wrote in a letter to Ryan on Monday.Contributing: Kevin Johnson, USA TODAY
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321813390/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~President-Trump-says-hell-praise-police-while-others-wont/
President Donald Trump praises police, saying others won't President Trump said he's not afraid, as some politicians are, to praise law enforcement. US President Donald Trump holds up a hat as he speaks during the 36th Annual National Peace Officers Memorial Service at the US Capitol in Washington, DC, May 15, 2017. (Photo: SAUL LOEB, AFP/Getty Images)WASHINGTON – Praising the courage of police officers who rush into unknown danger, President Trump said Monday he would take a courageous stand of his own in honoring their service.“I want you to know patriotic Americans of all backgrounds truly support and love our police,” Trump said at a service for law enforcement officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty.Trump called it a “very sad thing” that “many of today’s politicians don’t want to say that” because, Trump said, it’s not politically correct or they think it will hurt them with voters.“I will say it and I will talk about it proudly,” Trump said in the shadow of the Capitol, in remarks that began with his referencing the backing he received in last year's election by the National Fraternal Order of Police.“I will always support the incredible men and women of law enforcement as much as you have always supported me,” Trump said. “And you did. Big league.”As a sign of his support, Trump let his hair blow in the wind as he made his outdoor remarks.“Just to show you, by the way, how much I love our police, I said, `Oh, I’m going to need a hat because it’s so windy today,’” the 45h president told the crowd as he held up a white hat with the number 45 on the side and USA on the front. “When I got out here, I said, There’s no way I’m going to put on this hat. So we’ll leave off the hat.”Trump tossed the hat to Micah Glasser, the six-year-old son of a fallen Phoenix officer.While Glasser got the hat, Twitter got to comment on Trump’s hair.#Trump's Hair Bonita (@IronicPollyana) May 15, 2017 Pres. Trump is having a really bad hair day today in more ways than one. Why not bald with dignity?Rafal Hill (@rafalhill) May 15, 2017Wind is not the friend of Donald Trump's hair.— Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) May 15, 2017
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/321750237/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~How-high-should-Congress-let-flood-insurance-rates-rise-in-program-renewal/
Flood insurance: How high should Congress let your rates rise? How high should Congress let flood insurance rates rise in program renewal?In contrast to the battle over health insurance, there has been bipartisan support to renew the National Flood Insurance Program, but action before a Sept. 30 deadline is not guaranteed. How high should Congress let flood insurance rates rise in program renewal? In contrast to the battle over health insurance, there has been bipartisan support to renew the National Flood Insurance Program, but action before a Sept. 30 deadline is not guaranteed. How high should Congress let flood insurance rates rise in program renewal? Herb Jackson and Congress is considering dramatic changes to the National Flood Insurance Program, which has a $25 billion debt that its director says cannot be repaid.But as a Sept. 30 deadline looms for the program to be renewed, disagreements remain over how much homeowners should be forced to pay for flood insurance to make the program more solvent.If Congress can't reach an agreement, a lapse in the Federal Emergency Management Agency's legal authority to write new policies could disrupt real estate sales in flood-prone areas around the country.CLOSESkip in SkipxEmbedxShare 2016 really was the year of the flood in the U.S.: In total, 19 separate floods swamped the nation last year, the most in one single year since records began in 1980. USA TODAYRepublican Sen. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and Democratic Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York are circulating draft legislation to renew the program, but it contains provisions — such as vouchers to help low-income homeowners keep the cost of premiums and fees from getting too high — that are not in a draft that Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee plan to release this week.Disputes also remain over how to address wrongdoing by insurance companies and affiliated contractors in the wake of Superstorm Sandy and last year's floods in Louisiana, and whether older properties that flood repeatedly should still receive discounts. Many in Congress also want to encourage more private insurers to enter the market, but some warn the government could be left with only the riskiest properties.Support historically bipartisanCreated in the 1970s, when the private insurance industry largely stopped covering floods, the national program tried to get property owners in flood zones to pay premiums that could be pooled to cover disasters and fund mitigation programs and mapping to spur smarter land development.Support for the program has been based more on geography than party politics, and the 10 states that are home to 80 percent of policyholders are represented in the Senate by 11 Republicans and nine Democrats. Despite bipartisan support, action to renew the law has slowed this spring, and while Sept. 30 may seem a long way off, Congress is only due to be in session 51 days before the law expires."The Senate was originally waiting for the House to move, but given the time line, members are now looking to get issues out there with introduction of individual bills in the hope they'll be part of larger package," said Laura Lightbody, director of the Flood-Prepared Communities Project at the Pew Charitable Trusts.Cassidy said his office has been working with stakeholders, and there are plans for the staffs of lawmakers from the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic Coast to meet. (Photo: Bill Feig, AP)“We have to get it out there to kind of socialize the ideas first,” he said earlier this month. “We have some new concepts and we need feedback.”Sens. Marco Rubio and Bill Nelson, the Republican and Democrat representing Florida, joined three colleagues in sending a letter April 20 urging Senate leaders to set aside time to debate a renewal of the law.If the Sept. 30 deadline does pass without a new law — which has happened in the past — the nearly 5 million existing policies would remain in effect, but new ones could not be issued. That could disrupt home sales in flood-prone areas around the country, because flood insurance is mandatory for properties in high-risk zones bought with federally backed mortgages."There is a struggle here for the future of flood insurance," Rep. Tom MacArthur, a New Jersey Republican on the House Financial Services Committee, said after a hearing in March. "There are those who want to put it on a path to extinction."Massive debt a stumbling blockRun by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the program owes the U.S. Treasury nearly $25 billion, most of it borrowed to pay claims from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Superstorm Sandy in 2012. Interest now costs $400 million a year, or about 11 percent of all the premium dollars paid, and heavy floods in the South and Midwest last year necessitated borrowing an extra $20 million in January just to meet interest payments in March.Budget hawks, some of whom question why the government is in the insurance business at all, say the program needs to be more "self-sustaining." An outline of key provisions of the House bill released last week calls on FEMA to "strengthen taxpayer protections," in part by charging policyholders more to build a reserve fund.At the same time, many representatives of flood-prone areas say the next law has to include a formula requiring policies to be "affordable."Read more:Do you need flood insurance?Flood insurance surcharge to fund Donald Trump's wall raised at hearingThey paid premiums, so why must they fight for flood insurance payouts?“If it’s not affordable, it won’t be available and it will be devastating to coastal communities and any communities that are near or on the water across not just my district, but across the United States,” said Rep. Steven Palazzo, R-Miss., vice chairman of the Home Protection Caucus, a bipartisan group formed in 2013 to respond to steep premium increases resulting from a 2012 renewal of the program.FEMA's top flood insurance official, Roy E. Wright, told a House committee in March that the debt is partly the result of discounts for policies that Congress mandated over the years, and existing policyholders cannot be expected to repay it."There is no practical way for us to pay nearly $25 billion in debt. Full stop," Wright told a the Senate banking committee in March.Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., argued $10 billion of the debt could be blamed on the Army Corps of Engineers for not maintaining levees that failed during Katrina.Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., speaks during a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on Feb. 15, 2017. (Photo: Zach Gibson, AFP/Getty Images)"What we're doing is we are paying ourselves interest on a debt that we have largely created," Menendez said. "Instead of having this type of money either be invested in the program, or ultimately reducing the debt, we are paying interest to ourselves."Homes that flood repeatedly a burden About 1 in 10 properties with repeated flood claims have received payments that, in total, exceed the home's value, according to the Congressional Research Service.Repeatedly flooded properties represent just 1 percent of the policies, but they account for 25 to 30 percent of overall losses, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts. Five states — Florida, Louisiana, New Jersey, New York and Texas — each have more than 10,000 properties with repeated flood claims, and many of them are older properties that got discounts intended to encourage communities to enter the national program.A bill proposed by Reps. Ed Royce, R-Calif., and Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., would require communities to take pre-emptive action to end the cycle of flooding and rebuilding and the resulting costs of recovery.Trump seeking cutsThe Cassidy-Gillibrand bill would reallocate surcharges FEMA collects to provide $400 million annually for mitigation and resiliency assistance to reduce the risk of future flooding. But that program and another FEMA mitigation program would be eliminated under the preliminary 2018 budget proposed by Trump in March.Trump also called for an increase in surcharges, and some critics have alleged he would put that money toward funding a wall along the Mexican border, since FEMA and the Customs and Border Protection office are both part of the same Department of Homeland Security.It's not clear, however, if the administration has a plan for dealing with the flood insurance issues Congress is grappling with. Lightbody, the Pew Trusts official, said that Congress did not change any of the programs Trump was targeting in the 2017 spending bill it passed earlier this month."Members, I don’t think, have taken that very seriously," she said. "There's a lot of support in Congress for mapping and predisaster mitigation."Private insurers a flashpointFEMA provides coverage for nearly 5 million properties, but most of those policies are sold and serviced by commercial insurers, known as "write-your-own" companies, that receive commissions from the governmentMenendez and Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., grilled Wright at a hearing in March about insurers low-balling damage claims based on appraisals made by consulting firms that have used suspect procedures for making estimates. Kennedy was incensed that a company accused of manipulating estimates after Superstorm Sandy was still hired to make estimates after 2016's Louisiana floods. (Photo: Mary Frank, Asbury Park (N.J.) Press)He's proposed the "Program Consultant Accountability Act" that would give FEMA more authority to fire consultants and contractors in the program.“The bill will be fair,” Kennedy said during a floor speech earlier this month. “It will also have an appeals process to ensure that there are not false accusations against innocent parties. This is a simple, commonsense reform that frankly should have been put in place years ago.”Menendez is seeking cap the insurers' compensation, which he said could be 45 percent of the premium when the risk is being borne by FEMA. He has proposed to limit profits for write-your-own companies based on performance and service. He also would remove what he says is an incentive to low-ball claims to policyholders.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/246615640/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Pomp-and-protests-Inaugurating-a-president-and-his-movement/
Pomp and protests: Inaugurating a president and his movement Boris Epshteyn, 34, a Republican activist from New Jersey who became one of Donald Trump’s most vigorous defenders on cable TV during the campaign discusses plans for the Jan. 20 inauguration festivities. USA TODAYBoris Epshteyn is heading up communication for the inaugural committee.(Photo: David Baratz, USA TODAY)CONNECTTWEETLINKEDIN Trump Tower, it’s not. The Presidential Inaugural Committee works out of a nondescript General Services Administration building in southwest Washington, D.C. The bare-bones offices are decorated with hand-cut snowflakes and a few random strings of Christmas lights. Boris Epshteyn, 34, a Republican activist from New Jersey who became one of Donald Trump’s most vigorous defenders on cable TV during the campaign, is now communications director for the operation planning for the Jan. 20 festivities. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity.Q: A big Inauguration Day on Jan. 20 — and an unprecedented number of protesters expected. Are you concerned? Epshteyn: Americans have First Amendment rights and we are very honored that people will come to celebrate this inauguration, and we understand that some will come and protest, and that’s fully within their rights as long as they do it peacefully, and within all applicable laws, rules and regulations.Q: What’s the message President-elect Trump wants to convey on that day?Epshteyn: It’s all about unity. It’s about the country coming together, being one America, America uniting, and him being the president for all Americans. That’s really the key message.Q: There’s been criticism that during the transition he hasn’t done enough to reach out to those who didn’t support him. Epshteyn: He’s been very clear that he’s president of all Americans, not just those who supported him, but all Americans and he wants all people to not give up their dreams, not to downsize their dreams, and that goes for all Americans.Read more:USA TODAYCapital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakersUSA TODAYPresidential Inauguration 2017Q: He’s reduced the number of inaugural balls, from the 10 that President Obama had to three. Why?Epshteyn: This is not a coronation. It’s an inauguration. It’s a day to work and a day to get to work. And the president-elect, the incoming president, is someone who’s eager to get to work, who’s eager to make sure Americans are safe, to make sure Americans are employed.Q: There have been reports you’ve had trouble lining up A-list celebrities. True? Epshteyn: Absolutely not. We’ve had celebrities from all over the world reaching out, wanting to perform. But this inauguration is of the people; it’s by the people; it’s for the people. It’s not about celebrities; it’s not about entertainers. ...The election was really a celebration of the Trump movement. And this day, in addition to celebrating the transfer of power, of course brings in the fact that the Trump movement is now coming into power to D.C. in full force. Starting at noon on Jan. 20, Donald Trump will be representing the Trump movement. And what is that? That’s bucking the establishment again, right? That’s going against the special interests, going against the way that things have been a long time in a negative way and bringing in that new, fresh wave.Q: President Jackson threw the doors of the White House open.Epshteyn: You will definitely see throughout the week specific parts of events, specific representations of the movement and of the openness to the American people of Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C., the special interests — the swamp, as we called it during the campaign — has been closed off from the American people, removed from the American people in a big way, and that’s going to change starting on Jan. 20.Q: For example?Epshteyn: There’s going to be the welcoming event on Jan. 19. As part of that event you could see something that very much again transcends what Washington, D.C., has been and represents. ...It’s not just a party. It’s a commemoration, a commemoration of the transfer of power but again also of the fact that we are ringing in this new presidency and it’s the Trump presidency, very different from any we’ve seen in the past and very much different from the one we could have seen with Hillary Clinton, if she had won.Workers build portions of the inaugural platform for President-elect Donald Trump at the Capitol on Dec. 8, 2016. (Photo: Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images)Q: You were one of Trump’s most loyal surrogates during the campaign. You accused Hillary Clinton of using a Gold Star family as a prop; you defended Trump after the Access Hollywood tape was released. Did you ever have a point when you thought, ‘I can’t defend him anymore’?Epshteyn: Absolutely not. Absolutely not. Because I always firmly believed that it was binary choice between Hillary Clinton and the leader of Donald Trump, who was effective, who was pragmatic, who was smart and who truly leads. And I always believed that he was the right person for this job and nothing made me waver from that, especially not some of these gimmicks that some of the left tried to throw at him.Q: You were born in the Soviet Union; your family immigrated to the United States when you were 11. When New Jersey Sen. Frank Lautenberg died in 2013, you thanked him for pushing the law that let your family in.Epshteyn: We were Jewish refugees and we came to this country in the early '90s and Frank Lautenberg was part of this legislation, the Lautenberg Amendment, that allowed for Russian Jews to come to the United States and to go through the specific processes, to follow the laws, rules and regulations. We were refugees. We had a white card, then a green card, and then we studied for the (citizenship) test. My folks took the test and we became citizens — so proud to follow the law and to be citizens of this beautiful country.Q: How does that affect you when you see refugees today in Syria and elsewhere? Epshteyn: My heart breaks. My heart breaks for the folks, for the people in Syria, the people in Aleppo. It’s an absolutely terrible situation. And I really hope, as Donald Trump said throughout the campaign, that we have safe zones in Syria and have a way for those folks in Syria to be protected and to be safe.Q: Do you wish the United States did more for refugees, took in more refugees?Epshteyn: I think we do a lot. I think the United States does a ton for folks around the world — folks like ourselves, again, who follow the processes that are laid out. It took us a long time. It took us a long time to apply to be able to come, and then once we came it took a long time to be citizens. ...I work hard every single day to do everything I can to not just make my family proud but to make this country proud and thankful that they welcomed us with open arms.Stay with USA TODAY for full coverage of the 2017 inauguration.
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/239007874/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Exclusive-Tony-Blair-sees-dangerous-times-ahead-for-Western-democracies/
Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democraciesThe former British prime minister on political challenges fueled by anger and social media. Exclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies CancelSendSent!A link has been sent to your friend's email address.Posted!A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Nation's ConversationTo find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQsExclusive: Tony Blair sees dangerous times ahead for Western democracies Susan Page Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair speaks with USA TODAY Washington bureau chief Susan Page about the current political climate of many Western democracies. Video by Jasper Colt, USA TODAYFormer British prime minister Tony Blair(Photo: David Baratz, USA TODAY) LINKEDIN WASHINGTON — Former British prime minister Tony Blair warns that political upheaval from Great Britain's Brexit vote in June to the collapse of the Italian government on Sunday signals the most dangerous time for Western democracies in decades."It does feel perilous, actually, because I think there are decisions that are being taken of vast moment in circumstances where systems are fragile," he told Capital Download on Monday. "And that is troubling."It has been a year of unexpected victories by populist and nationalistic forces that are challenging the establishment: passage of the referendum pulling Britain from the European Union, the election of Donald Trump as president in the United States, defeat of a measure in Italy that prompted the prime minister to announce his resignation.USA TODAYItalian vote, Renzi resignation confuses global marketsAnd in the Austrian election Sunday, the candidate representing the party founded by former Nazis lost — but after commanding 46% of the vote.Blair, who was in Washington to address a conference sponsored by the bipartisan group No Labels, announced last week the launch of a new organization that will try to help build a more muscular policy agenda for centrists and encourage networking among them across Europe, in the United States and elsewhere. Given the rise of extreme voices on the left and right, he said, "I'm not sure we're asking the right questions right now, never mind giving the right answers."Of particular concern to him is a "longing" for an authoritarian leader."It's amazing how many people you will find who will reference a style of leadership of (Russian) President Putin in a positive way," he told USA TODAY's weekly video newsmaker series. "I think people want their country moving and they think that if the present system is not moving it, and not making the changes that they want to see, then maybe someone who just says, 'I don't care what anyone thinks; I'm just going to go for it, and this is what I'm going to do' — that has a certain attraction."If the center isn't a place of strength and vitality, and it looks kind of flabby and just managing the status quo, then you're at risk of someone coming along and doing that."USA TODAYCapital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakersIn his speech to the No Labels conference, he faulted some centrist political leaders for failing to do enough to improve the economic prospects for workers disrupted by globalization and to ensure a sense of personal safety at a time, for instance, that Great Britain and other European countries have absorbed a wave of immigrants from Syria. "People will only put aside prejudices if they think there are rules," he said.Blair sees a common thread from Brexit's passage to Trump's election to support for Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, a provocative figure whose anti-drug campaign is blamed for thousands of deaths.Tony Blair speaks at a No Labels event in Washington on Dec. 5, 2016. (Photo: Paul Morigi, AP Images for No Labels)"There is immense amount of anger at established ways of doing things," Blair said. "There is, I think, a whole group of people who feel ignored by those in power, that is for sure true. There is more anger around in politics than for a long time." While issues such as immigration aren't new, there is "much greater skepticism towards globalization and the benefits of it."What's more, "social media is a revolutionary phenomenon," he went on. "It changes the way politics works. It changes the way the media works. If we're not careful, it locks people into conversations with people who just agree with them, and who then have a general conspiracy-theory view of the rest of the world."Blair has never met Trump and didn't criticize him.Asked about whether it was wise for Trump to accept a congratulatory telephone call from the president of Taiwan — the sort of conversation every American president since 1979 deliberately has avoided — Blair demurred. "I'm not going to get into your politics," he began. "To be honest, in the end, I'll tell you what I really think: Let's see how it works out."USA TODAYTrump talks to Taiwan's leader, breaking precedent"I'm less worried about America than I am about Europe; I'll be very frank with you," he said. "America is such a strong country and you've got so many checks-and-balances and you've got such resilience in your economy and so on; you guys will do fine, I'm sure. In Europe, we have systems that are at a point of fragility that troubles me."Blair was just 54 years old when he moved out of 10 Downing Street after serving as prime minister from 1997 to 2007. His political appeal for a "new way" was akin to President Bill Clinton's "third way" for Democrats here, and he was a crucial ally for President George W. Bush during the Iraq War.Now he offers a bit of free advice for President Obama, who will move out the White House next month at age 55: Find a cause."When you've got young political leaders and then they leave office young, you've got to find something that really motivates you," he said. "The reason I spent so much time on the Middle East is that I'm deeply motivated by it. But you've got to find something that gets you up in the morning with the same sense of purpose and excitement as happened when you were prime minister or president."Capital Download with former British prime minister Tony Blair and USA TODAY's Susan Page. (Photo: David Baratz, USA TODAY)
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/235727824/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Gingrich-calls-Trump-tweet-about-vote-fraud-a-big-mistake/
Gingrich calls Trump tweet about vote fraud a big mistake  The former speaker says a potentially transformative president shouldn't have sent that tweet 50th Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich discusses Trump's possible appointment of Mitt Romney as Secretary of State with USA TODAY Washington bureau chief Susan Page. USA TODAYFormer House speaker Newt Gingrich on USA TODAY's Capital Download(Photo: Sean Dougherty, USAT)CONNECTTWEET LINKEDIN WASHINGTON — Former House speaker Newt Gingrich calls Donald Trump a potentially transformative president. But he shouldn't have sent out that tweet alleging election fraud.In an interview Tuesday with Capital Download, Gingrich, a free-wheeling Trump adviser who is a vice-chairman of his transition team, described the president-elect as a leader who is poised to disrupt the regular order in a way no commander in chief has done since Andrew Jackson in the 19th century.But he also said that Trump's biggest misstep in the three weeks since he won the White House was to post on Twitter Sunday a complaint asserting widespread voter fraud, and in an election he won. "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide," Trump wrote, "I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.""The president of the United States can't randomly tweet without having somebody check it out," Gingrich told USA TODAY's weekly video newsmaker series. "It makes you wonder about whatever else he's doing. It undermines much more than a single tweet."USA TODAYCapital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakersDoes he see any evidence of millions of illegal votes?"No," Gingrich says.The former House speaker, who led a political disruption of his own when Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in 1994, says the best thing Trump has done so far is to name campaign chairman Steve Bannon and Republican national chairman Reince Priebus to his top White House staff. "You have a very hard-line conservative warrior as your chief strategist and you have a really sophisticated manager of the establishment as your chief of staff," he says.That said, Gingrich is caustic toward another potential Trump appointment, of Mitt Romney, the GOP's 2012 presidential nominee. Trump and Romney were slated to meet Tuesday for a second time, reportedly to discuss the role of secretary of State for the GOP's 2012 nominee, who was perhaps Trump's fiercest Republican critic during the campaign."I think it's outrageous," Gingrich says. "Romney said vile and vicious things. Romney opposed him all the way up to the election. In my judgment, Romney will be a very high risk ... because I think Romney has zero interest in the Trump revolution and every interest in re-establishing his own credentials."While he views former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani as a better choice, Gingrich says House Speaker Paul Ryan "is very strongly in favor of Romney" and that Priebus is "pretty strongly" in favor of him. Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, however, has warned of a grassroots revolt if Romney is named to the Cabinet's top job.When he met with Trump last week, Gingrich says, "He commented, 'This is really a bigger job than I thought.' Which is good. He should think that." As president, Gingrich went on, "you have war and peace, you have enormous powers ... and it all comes down to the Oval Office and it all comes down to you."He argues that Trump, who hasn't held a news conference since July, should feel no obligation to hold any as president, suggesting instead he solicit questions from the public to answer. "The news media so totally disgraced itself in this election, if I were Trump I would just say no," Gingrich says. "And if the White House Correspondents Association doesn't like it, I'd say, 'Fine, disband.'"Gingrich says the political world hasn't yet come to grips with the sort of fundamental change the election of "the most insurgent president in American history" could bring. He describes Trump as "one-third Andrew Jackson in disruption, one-third Theodore Roosevelt in sheer energy, and one-third P.T. Barnum in selling all the time."But he says Trump might need to occasionally curb his instincts."He should tweet, but he ought to have an editorial board in-between the first draft and sending it," he suggests — not an idea Trump seems likely to accept. "But he shouldn't give it up, and he shouldn't give up being Donald Trump. He got elected being this unique, charismatic, entrepreneurial guy who breaks lots of rules. ... If he starts getting to be normal, he'll cease being Donald J. Trump."USA TODAYTrump denounces flag burning, Twitter points out it is constitutionalFormer House speaker Newt Gingrich and USA TODAY's Susan Page on Capital Download (Photo: Sean Dougherty, USAT)CONNECTTWEET
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/224993008/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Sanders-backs-Trump-protests-questions-Electoral-College/
Sanders backs Trump protests, questions Electoral College The surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic nomination wasn't shocked by Trump's victory Sen. Bernie Sanders called for “rethinking” the Electoral College and warned President-elect Donald Trump that he should expect more street protests if he pursues divisive policies. LINKEDIN Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, the surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic presidential nomination, sat down Sunday with USA TODAY's Capital Download to talk about last week's election stunner, the future of the Democratic Party and his new book, being published Tuesday by Thomas Dunne Books, Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity.Q: If you had been nominated, would you have won?Sanders: Monday-morning quarterbacking is always easy. The answer is, I don’t know. Nobody knows. I certainly wish I had had that opportunity. Some of the polls out there suggest that might have been the case.Q: How much overlap was there between you and Donald Trump in your appeal?Sanders: There is an overlap, that Trump very successfully understood a lot of people are angry. They feel the economy of this country is not working for them. I mean, Trump was incredibly weak, and its ahistorical, the lack of specificity that he had in any of his proposals. Boy, Hillary Clinton had 87 different proposals all lined up and Trump said, ‘We’re going to do this great. It’s going to be excellent. Really excellent.’ What are you talking about? ‘Excellent, fantastic program.’ No details, no nothing. ...The overwhelming stuff on television had to do with political gossip. Know everything you want to know about Hillary’s emails and Donald Trump’s attitude toward women. Why is the middle class in decline? Why are we the only major country not to have paid family leave? Why aren’t our kids able to afford to go to college? Those are the issues that we have got to talk about. Does corporate media talk about it? No. ...Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In, by Bernie Sanders (Photo: Thomas Dunne Books)It is naive to not understand who owns the media in America, the major media: large, multinational conglomerates. What is their goal? Their goal is to make money. Is there a basic conflict between making money for large media and having a serious discussion on issues that impact working people? Yeah, I think there are.Q: We see anti-Trump demonstrations cropping up across the country. Is that a good thing? Sanders: We have a First Amendment. People are angry. People are upset. And they want to express their point of view that they are very frightened, in very, very strong disagreement with Mr. Trump, who has made bigotry the cornerstone of his campaign. ...I think that people are saying, ‘Mr. Trump, we have come too far in this country fighting discrimination and bigotry. We’re not going back. And if you’re going to continue that effort, you’re going to have to take us on.’ ...USA TODAYCapital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakersWe may want to take a look at the whole Electoral College, which is seating a man for president who didn’t get the most votes. This is something we need a serious discussion on. This campaign revolved around 15 states of the country, right? Battleground states. My state of Vermont is a strong Democratic state; no one paid attention. Wyoming is a Republican state; nobody paid attention to Wyoming. Is that a good way?Q: Would it be good to change the Electoral College?A: I think you ought to think about this. ... I think we want to rethink that.Q: Is it fair to say you wrote this book on the assumption Clinton would win?Sanders: I thought there was a 2-1 shot she was going to win. I was not one of those who was shocked by a Trump victory. ...Q: You were in the minority to think there was even a one in three shot that Donald Trump would win.Sanders: Look, I campaigned in 46 states in this country. The punditry and the inside-the-Beltway mentality really has very little understanding of what’s going on with working people. It’s really almost embarrassing. ...You’re a working person, you can’t afford child care for your kids. Why is it after working your whole life you can’t afford to send your kid to college? Why is it that you’re having a decent job at a factory, and that factory has gone to China? Why is it that you’re seeing almost all new income and wealth go to the top 1%? People are angry and they’re frustrated.Q: You’re supporting Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison for Democratic national chairman. Is he going to win?Sanders: He stands a good chance....It’s not just this election where it is still hard to believe that Trump won. But Republicans control the Senate. They control the House. They have done phenomenally well over the past eight years in state legislatures around the country, in governor races. And people are asking: How does it happen that a political party which wants to give tax breaks to billionaires, which nobody supports; which wants to cut programs for working people; wants to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid; many of whose members do not even believe in the reality of climate change – how in God’s name do these guys win elections? Well, the Democratic leadership of today hasn’t figured this out. It is time for profound change. ...What this book is about -- and I know people are going to say, ‘Oh my God, Bernie talks about the economy, talks about health care, talks about immigration, talks about criminal justice, talks about all these things how boring can it be?’ I know it will be criticized. Boring. It’s wonky. But I think we got to begin talking about real issues.Q: There are quite a few charts in your book.Sanders: (Laughs) Yes. Bernie Sanders: A look at his political career
http://rssfeeds.usatoday.com/~/218330552/0/usatodaycomwashington-topstories~Dana-Perino-Trump-candidacy-has-set-GOP-women-adrift/
A Republican stalwart debates whether to just stay home and warns of a hidden Clinton vote Dana Perino: Trump candidacy has set GOP women 'adrift' Dana Perino, former White House press secretary and co-host of Fox TV's 'The Five.'(Photo: Robert Deutsch, USAT)CONNECTTWEET LINKEDIN  Dana Perino, a former White House press secretary for President George W. Bush, personifies the GOP’s looming crisis with women voters. At 44, she is a lifelong Republican and aide to Republican officeholders, but she’s not voting for Donald Trump on Election Day. Perino, co-host of Fox's The Five, is promoting her new book, Let Me Tell You About Jasper: How My Best Friend Became America’s Dog, published by Twelve. She was interviewed for USA TODAY's Capital Download Friday in New York. Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity.Q: You’ve worked for Republican congressmen, in a Republican Justice Department and at a Republican White House. So are you voting for the Republican presidential nominee next month?Perino: I do feel adrift as a Republican woman, maybe a woman without a party. ... You sort of feel like, ‘I don’t know if I belong anymore.’ Now, there are plenty of Republican women that support Donald Trump fervently and passionately, without any hesitation. I just have hesitation and I don’t know what I’m going to do. I don’t know if I’m even going to vote, and I have a perfect voting record.USA TODAYCapital Download - Conversations with Washington's biggest newsmakersQ: Why is Trump losing so many women voters? Perino: I think that a lot of women in their gut are concerned about the temperament, and knowledge and experience, (although) they don’t necessarily like Hillary Clinton. ...Unless the Republican Party changes either the way that it talks about things (like sexual assault) or the way it approaches issues like paid maternity leave, they’re going to risk losing women in the future. But it also depends on how Hillary Clinton decides to govern, and I think we don’t know what that’s going to be like, if she becomes president.'Let Me Tell You About Jasper,' by Dana Perino (Photo: Twelve, Hachette Book Group)Q: A question for you from a reader on Twitter: What did you think about the exchange between Megyn Kelly and Newt Gingrich? (Gingrich accused the Fox News anchor of being “fascinated by sex” when she asked about allegations of sexual misconduct by Trump.) Perino: I thought Megyn was extremely, exceedingly professional. I do think that it’s a news story and I don’t think that the news media is just making up the news story. ...When he (Trump) went to Gettysburg (Pa.) and he made the Gettysburg address, I called it the Gettysburg redress of grievances. Because substantively, if you’re a Republican, you could read that speech or listen to it, and say ‘I agree with all that. School choice, lower taxes, I’m for that.’ But adding the paragraph that he’s going to sue all the women (accusers) after the election – one, to me was about intimidation to make sure if you were thinking of coming out, don’t. It’s calling women liars and it’s putting them on the defensive. Look, we just went through a summer at Fox News where questions of sexual harassment came up.Q: The issue of sexual harassment has had a political power this year it hasn’t had before.Perino: I certainly think so. In fact, what I thought was strange about the way the Trump campaign handled all that was, one of their strongest talking points against Hillary Clinton’s character had been how accusers of Bill Clinton had been treated through the years. But now accusers of Donald Trump are being treated in the exact same way that they complain Hillary Clinton treated those women. So it kind of canceled each other out. No wonder people are dissatisfied with this election.Q: Do you think Trump could win?Perino: I think it’s unlikely. However, I do remember 2000.... I do think that anything could happen.When Donald Trump’s campaign says that there are a lot of undecideds out there and people who are not willing to admit that they plan to vote for Donald Trump, that might be true. But I also think it could be true on the other side as well. For instance, these Republican women who feel adrift, if they decide they’re going to go to the polls to vote for Hillary Clinton, they’re probably not telling too many people about that.Q: Are you a secret Hillary Clinton voter?Perino: No, I am not going to vote for Hillary.Q: Is it conceivable you would vote for Trump?Perino: No. My question right now is: Do I go in and write in a candidate that I don’t even know? Or do I not even go? .... It pains me to think about not voting, but not that much, actually. I feel that decision is actually making a statement.President George W. Bush and White House Press Secretary Dana Perino at the White House in September 2008. (Photo: Alex Wong, Getty Images)
