https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/trump-s-wall-demands-may-decide-whether-100th-day-is-a-shutdown
Trump’s Wall Demands May Decide Whether 100th Day Is a ShutdownOMB Director Says No Surprise Wall Is Top Trump PriorityNobody in Washington is saying they want a U.S. government shutdown when funding runs out at week’s end, but one person ultimately may get to decide: President Donald Trump.Trump’s biggest demand is a Democratic deal-breaker: money for his long-promised border wall with Mexico. Democrats hope he’ll blink to avoid an embarrassing milestone for a new president trying to prove he can govern. A partial shutdown would start on Saturday, Trump’s 100th day in office.QuickTake  U.S. Budget Battles“The Wall is a very important tool in stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth (and many others)!” Trump wrote Monday on Twitter.There is an out for both sides -- a short-term spending plan that would provide another week or so for negotiations after the deadline early Saturday.But right now, each side is dug in. And Trump is making things more complicated, not less. At the same time as budget talks intensify, he’s pushing House Republicans to re-start work on an Obamacare repeal-and-replace bill after the last one imploded in March when conservatives walked away.Trump’s also planning to announce at least the broad parameters of a tax overhaul on Wednesday that seems sure to have plenty to annoy Democrats, including likely tax cuts for corporations and high-earners.Obamacare FundsOn top of that, Trump insists he won’t go quietly even if Republicans and Democrats cut a deal. His budget director tried to sweeten the pot on Friday by offering Democrats help on their pet cause, Obamacare subsidies.“The question is, how much of our stuff do we have to get? How much of their stuff are they willing to take?” budget director Mick Mulvaney said on Bloomberg Television. “We’d offer them one dollar” of Obamacare payments, he added, “for one dollar of wall payments right now.”OMB Dir. Mulvaney discusses tax plan.Source: BloombergDemocrats called Mulvaney’s Obamacare offer a non-starter, saying they refuse to include any funds for a wall in the spending bill that would finance the government through September, the end of the fiscal year.‘Another Way, Another Time’It’s a rare moment when the Democrats have leverage in the Republican-controlled House, since it’s likely that Republican leaders would need at least some Democratic votes to offset Republican defections on the budget -- as has been the case for a series of budget fights in recent years.Republicans may not be willing to allow the government to shut down over the wall.“I wouldn’t risk a trillion-dollar funding bill for a $3 billion wall,” Representative Tom Cole, the Oklahoma Republican who sits on the House appropriations and budget committees, told MSNBC Monday. “There’s another way, another time to get this.”Through it all, Trump has sounded upbeat, saying he thinks negotiations are in good shape to avert a shutdown. “Our goal is to continue to do whatever is necessary to fund the government,” White House press secretary Sean Spicer said on Friday.“We don’t know yet” whether Trump would sign a spending bill that doesn’t include money for the border wall, Mulvaney, a former House member from South Carolina and a founding member of the conservative Freedom Caucus, said on “Fox News Sunday.” The budget director said last week that Trump’s priorities, including more funds for defense and immigration enforcement, shouldn’t surprise anyone.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer’s spokesman, Matt House, complained that the White House in recent days brought a “heavy hand” into what he said were smooth-going talks between congressional Republicans and Democrats.“If the administration would drop their 11th-hour demand for a wall that Democrats, and a good number of Republicans, oppose, congressional leaders could quickly reach a deal,” House said in a statement Friday.Paul Ryan Needs Pelosi's Help to Avert a Gov't ShutdownSchumer told MSNBC on Monday that Republican and Democratic leaders were on their way to a resolution when Trump intervened “and he throws a monkey wrench in it.”Bipartisan SolutionOne thing is certain: any spending deal must be a bipartisan one. Even though Republicans control both houses of Congress and the White House, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan know they’ll both need Democratic votes to pass a government funding measure.The Senate needs 60 votes to advance legislation, meaning the 52 Republicans will need help from at least eight Democrats. In the House, conservatives led by the Freedom Caucus and other fiscal hawks have regularly bolted on spending bills and Democrats have provided enough votes for passage.Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Monday that Democrats should be blamed if the funding legislation doesn’t pass in time to avoid a shutdown.“We’ll have a bill moving forward with some money in there for the wall,” he said on Fox News. “If the Democrats filibuster that and block it, they’re the ones shutting the whole government down.”Mulvaney has acknowledged that Democrats “have a certain amount of leverage.”But giving in to Democratic demands to get a bipartisan deal would not only threaten Trump’s wall funding, it also would require dropping Republican priorities such as language to block funding for women’s health clinics Planned Parenthood, and to defund so-called sanctuary cities that decline to enforce some immigration laws.Congressional negotiators have been quietly working for weeks on possible compromises, including an increase in defense spending that would be less than the $30 billion Trump has sought but larger than the $5 billion requested earlier by then-President Barack Obama.Domestic SpendingDemocrats insisted during the Obama administration that any defense increases be matched by higher domestic spending, though they may show some flexibility now.One trade-off could pair $9 billion in subsidies for insurance companies under Obamacare -- a domestic spending increase -- with an equal increase for regular defense operations. Another $5 billion to $10 billion in war funding could be added to that, and Democrats could justify going along with the idea given heightened tensions with Syria and North Korea.On the border wall, appropriations lobbyist Jim Dyer of the Podesta Group suggested the issue could be solved by having wall money depend on the Homeland Security Department issuing a detailed plan later in the year, subject to bipartisan approval.Republican appropriators, meanwhile, haven’t emphasized the issue of stopping funding for so-called sanctuary cities. The Justice Department already can restrict some local law enforcement grants to cities and states that don’t provide immigration status updates to the federal government.Trump and DemocratsThere’s also been little talk lately of the White House’s call for $18 billion in immediate domestic agency cuts as part of the package. This shows bipartisan promise in Congress, but also leaves Trump’s views largely unknown.Democratic leaders in both chambers have complained of a lack of communication with the president until recent days.“I don’t think there is a relationship between Trump and congressional Democrats yet,” said Stan Collender, a budget analyst and executive vice president of Qorvis MSLGroup in Washington. “I don’t see them doing anything to help him at all.”Watch Next: Paul Ryan Needs Pelosi's Help to Avert a Gov't ShutdownHouse Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that “the Republicans have the votes in the House and the Senate and the White House to keep government open. The burden to keep it open is on the Republicans.”Strategic DecisionStill, if McConnell and Ryan decide they need to pass a short-term funding plan to provide time for more talks, Democrats will have a strategic decision to make -- oppose it to keep pressure on Trump, or go along for fear of being the party blamed for a shutdown.Collender said Trump may decide to declare a “win” by making compromises to avoid a shutdown similar to the 16-day partial closing in 2013 under Obama. Yet, he said, the president also might surprise people by pushing hard for his proposals. His supporters might like to see him fight for the border wall and other priorities, Collender said.Ross Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University in New Jersey, said, “Government shutdowns seem to have fallen out of fashion even with conservative Republicans” who forced the 2013 shutdown in an unsuccessful attempt to repeal Obamacare.“The only hitch I see is if Trump gets dogmatic over the wall and passes the word to Ryan that they shouldn’t let the Democrats off the hook with their alternative to a brick-and-mortar wall,” he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-22/trump-s-plans-big-rally-in-pennsylvania-to-mark-100th-day
Trump Does the 100-Day Dash Before ‘Big’ Pennsylvania RallyWhy Is Trump Bullish on Health Care, Tax Reform?Following a week of events intended to show he’s delivering on his campaign promises to Americans, President Donald Trump plans to mark his 100th day in office with a rally in Pennsylvania’s capital city.Yet Trump’s return to the key swing state -- one that helped seal his upset victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton in November -- stands in contrast to his slow progress in a divided Washington, low approval ratings, and battles he’ll face in the coming days, including the possibility of a government shutdown starting on the day of his rally.“Look forward to it!” Trump exclaimed about what he called the “BIG” Harrisburg event in a Twitter message Saturday to his 28 million followers. The rally is scheduled at 7:30 p.m. Eastern time, going head-to-head with the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in Washington that Trump is skipping.The week leading to Trump’s 100th day, a traditional milestone for early presidential accomplishments, is set to be packed with action -- not all of it flattering to the young administration.Most notable is the potential federal shutdown. The current spending bill expires after Friday, and lawmakers and the White House have yet to agree on a measure that would fund government agencies through the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. An anti-Trump climate protest is also planned for April 29 in Washington and dozens of other U.S. cities.Making ProgressGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Despite the hurdles, Trump’s schedule is meant to convey the message that he’s making great progress, while reinforcing connections to his biggest red-state supporters. That includes the launch of an office focused on crimes committed by people who are in the U.S. illegally, the signing of an executive order addressing protections for rural America, and the unveiling of a tax-reduction plan, according to the White House.An ABC News/Washington Post poll released on Sunday showed that Trump has an approval rating of 42 percent, the lowest at this point of any president in polls going back to 1945. Still, 94 percent of those who supported him in November said they would do it again today, the poll found.Members of Trump’s cabinet will hit the road in the coming week for various events, and the White House said it will launch a web page full of graphics, videos and other shareable digital content touting the administration’s achievements.Covering the waterfront, Trump also plans to meet with ambassadors from United Nations Security Council countries, address the National Holocaust Memorial Museum’s National Day of Remembrance, and speak to the National Rifle Association’s Leadership Forum in Atlanta.Trump’s rally in Harrisburg is scheduled for the same time as the annual correspondents’ banquet, a Washington tradition signifying comity between the president and the press. Trump will be the first sitting president to skip the annual dinner since 1981, when Ronald Reagan was recuperating from a gunshot wound.Instead, the president plans a reception at the White House on Monday for members of conservative media.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-22/ryan-tells-colleagues-house-will-act-in-time-to-avoid-shutdown
Ryan Tells Colleagues House Will Act in Time to Avoid ShutdownPaul Ryan Needs Pelosi's Help to Avert a Gov't ShutdownSpeaker Paul Ryan told House Republican colleagues that a spending bill will be ready in time to avert a potential government shutdown at week’s end, and keep agencies running and financed through the end of September.Ryan provided few details of that bill, though, during a Saturday afternoon conference call with rank-and-file members, according to three members who participated.There was no discussion of how any deal on a bill to keep government funded until the Oct. 1 start of a new fiscal year would resolve unsettled issues, including whether money would be provided for President Donald Trump’s promised wall along the U.S. border with Mexico.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.In an excerpt from an interview to be broadcast on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, John Kelly, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said he “would suspect” that Trump “will be insistent on the funding” for the wall as negotiations to keep the government open move ahead. “It goes without saying that the president has been pretty straightforward about his desire and the need for a border wall.”Yet, the members said Ryan insisted a bill will be finalized between Congress and the White House before an existing spending measure expires and government funding dries up after April 28. Trump will mark his 100th day in office on April 29.Neither the speaker nor several top lieutenants, who also spoke during the call, brought up the possible need for a shorter, stop-gap version of a spending bill to allow more time for negotiating, said the members, who spoke on the condition they not be identified so they could speak freely.Do SomethingRyan expressed urgency during the call for Republicans to show they can get something accomplished -- even telling members their future as a majority party will depend on it. Ryan said Americans expect Republicans -- who control both chambers of Congress as well as the White House -- to govern, and that they’re entering a pivotal time, the members said.Congressional Democrats, whose votes would be needed in the Senate and possibly also the House to pass such a spending bill, have said they won’t support money for Trump’s border wall.Ryan said details of a spending bill deal would be unveiled when House members arrive back in Washington on Tuesday after their two-week spring recess.All three members said Ryan made clear he didn’t want their discussions to be publicized. At one point, they said, the speaker explained his reluctance to lay out specifics because he didn’t trust that members of his own conference weren’t recording the meeting or even streaming live audio.The call was described as brief -- no more than 20 minutes.Health BillThe other topic discussed was efforts toward a new health care bill, after a Republican-led measure was pulled hours before a planned vote in the House in March.Ryan said there’d been good progress on a new version, and complimented the work toward a compromise done by Representatives Mark Meadows of North Carolina and Tom MacArthur of New Jersey in narrowing the differences between conservative and moderate Republicans that helped to doom the previous effort.Work is under way to draft text for the new version by the Energy and Commerce Committee, led by chairman Greg Walden of Oregon, who also spoke during the call. Ryan said on April 19 that lawmakers were already negotiating “finishing touches.”During their recess, some Republican lawmakers have faced angry constitutions -- many of them upset over the Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare -- during town hall meetings in their home districts.Ready to WorkRyan told members he hoped they are returning to Washington recharged and ready to get to work.But Ryan made no commitment on when a new version of a health bill might be brought to the floor for a vote, the members said.A key House Republican lawmaker has said he expects a vote on a health bill during the first week in May. “The odds of that are pretty good,” Representative Dave Brat of Virginia, a member of the far-right House Freedom Caucus, said in a radio interview Friday with a Richmond radio station.Brat said that if compromises that conservatives and moderates have worked out with the administration materialize when the bill is written, “that gets a lot of us toward a ‘yes,’ along with a couple of other items we’ve been negotiating.”But reigniting talk that a vote is imminent risks another political embarrassment like the one in March, when Trump and Ryan abruptly scrapped a vote on an earlier version of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare.Other leaders speaking on Saturday’s call were Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California, Majority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana, and Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington state. Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey also participated.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-22/health-care-vote-likely-in-early-may-house-conservative-says
White House Still Pressing to Hold Obamacare Vote This WeekDonald Trump’s administration continues to push for a vote this week in the House to replace Obamacare, which the president said on Sunday is “in serious trouble.”Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said on “Fox News Sunday” that the Senate Budget Committee sent language on the health bill to the House on Saturday night, as negotiations between Congress and the White House continue.House members return from their Easter recess on Tuesday and are expected to concentrate on a must-pass bill to keep the federal government funded beyond April 28. Still, Mulvaney said the administration sees no “structural reason” why the House couldn’t also vote on a health-care plan this week.“Health care may happen this week, it may not,” White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday. “We’re hopeful it will.”Representative Dave Brat of Virginia, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said the health-care vote will more likely come in early May.“The odds of that are pretty good,” Brat said in an interview on Friday with a Richmond radio station. Also suggesting that timeline was Representative Mark Sanford of South Carolina, who said on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday that finding a way to vote in the coming week would be “awfully tough.”Working on CompromisesBrat said if compromises that conservatives and moderates have worked out with the administration materialize when the bill is written, “that gets a lot of us toward a ‘yes,’ along with a couple of other items we’ve been negotiating.”House Republican leaders and the White House haven’t announced a target date for a vote. But Speaker Paul Ryan said on April 19 that lawmakers were already negotiating “finishing touches.”Reigniting talk that a vote is imminent risks another embarrassment such as the one in March, when Trump and Ryan abruptly scrapped a vote on an earlier version of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare because a number of Republicans didn’t support the measure.But Brat said the divisions between party conservatives such as himself and moderates, which undid the previous effort, are being addressed in a compromise that Vice President Mike Pence has helped broker.Pre-Existing ConditionsSome of those proposed changes were circulating this week among members in summary form, including an amendment co-sponsored by Representative Tom MacArthur, a New Jersey Republican and co-chairman of a group of House moderates.The amendment would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing conditions in states that get a waiver. To obtain the waiver, states would have to provide sick people priced out of commercial insurance access to a so-called “high-risk pool” run by the federal government, or establish their own, and satisfy certain other conditions.Brat, asked in the interview whether the latest bill would actually repeal Obamacare -- a Trump campaign promise and a long-time goal of congressional Republicans -- bluntly said “No.”“This is not repealing Obamacare,” he said. “This maintains the rough structure of Obamacare.”No Longer SymbolicHe said that it turns out after more than 50 symbolic votes in the House to undo Obamacare over the years, there isn’t enough support to actually do it, now that it can become a reality with a Republican president to go along with the party’s control of the House and Senate.Brat said he doubts House leaders would take up the health bill immediately because Congress must deal with passing a spending measure to keep government funded beyond Friday, when a current spending mechanism expires.The White House has told Democrats that for every dollar they allow in the spending measure to go toward the planned wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, the administration would agree to equal funds to continue Obamacare subsidies that help reduce out-of-pocket costs for low-income consumers.“ObamaCare is in serious trouble,” Trump tweeted Sunday. “The Dems need big money to keep it going -- otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone would have thought.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-23/mulvaney-says-trump-tax-plan-details-won-t-be-ready-until-june
Mulvaney Says Trump Tax Plan Details Won’t Be Ready Until JuneMulvaney Willing to Trade Health Payments for Wall MoneyThe White House will offer “specific governing principles’’ for its tax plan this week along with indications of what new rates would be, but a complete proposal probably won’t be ready until June, President Donald Trump’s budget director said.Trump has promised news about his tax plan on Wednesday, telling his 28 million Twitter followers on Saturday that a “Big TAX REFORM AND TAX REDUCTION will be announced’’ on April 26.Mick MulvaneyPhotographer: Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images“What you’re going to see on Wednesday is for the first time is, here’s what our principles are, here are some of the ideas that we like, some of the ideas we don’t like, and we can talk about that more if you want to,’’ Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said on “Fox News Sunday.’’ “Here are some of the rates we’re talking about.’’Asked about his previous comments that the full plan with bill language probably won’t be released until June, Mulvaney said “that’s still probably fair. ” The administration has started working with House and Senate committees “as we try and build some momentum for this tax plan,” he said.Mulvaney said the administration hasn’t decided whether its plan will be revenue neutral, which would be needed to meet the criteria set by lawmakers to make tax changes permanent, or will add to the national debt.For more on the debate over revenue neutrality, click here.“You can either have a small tax cut that’s permanent or a large tax cut that is short-term,’’ Mulvaney said. “I don’t think we decided that. But you’ll know more on Wednesday.’’Bloomberg News reported on Friday that Trump’s plan probably won’t include a border-adjusted tax, or BAT, suggesting the president’s proposed measures won’t be revenue neutral. That’s because the border tax that House Speaker Paul Ryan has proposed would generate more than $1 trillion in revenue over a decade, helping to offset the cost of individual and corporate rate cuts.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and other senior officials have signaled that the administration is more concerned about growth and job creation and will rely on so-called dynamic scoring rather than revenue neutrality in crafting its changes.Under dynamic scoring, a tax plan’s revenue effects are considered in the context of the plan’s impact on economic growth and consumer well-being. The process can be contentious -- economists disagree on the best ways to predict such effects -- but Mnuchin has repeatedly emphasized its importance to the Trump plan.“Some of the lowering in rates is going to be offset by less deductions and simpler taxes,” Mnuchin said on Saturday. “But the majority of it will be made up” by dynamic scoring.Trump said in a Feb. 28 tweet that his tax plan “will reduce the tax rate on our companies & provide massive tax relief for the middle class.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-24/mellower-trump-trade-tone-eases-onus-on-china-to-fill-u-s-void
Trump’s Softening Trade Tone Spares China From Setting Economic AgendaChina’s President Xi Jinping wants to revive China’s ancient silk road by spurring trade via a network of new railways, ports, pipelines and highways. This Bloomberg QuickTake explains Xi’s pet project. (video by Robin Fall, Henry Baker) (Source: Bloomberg) (Changed headline to better reflect video.)The softening of President Donald Trump’s protectionist economic agenda has eased fears of a global trade war. It also spares China from having to assert itself as defender of the existing global economic order or being forced to take the lead in forging a new one.An improving growth outlook lifted the spirits of finance chiefs meeting in Washington for the first get-together of the International Monetary Fund since Trump’s election. While his “America First” position on trade prompted delegates to adopt the same position taken by the Group of 20 last month, when it dropped a commitment to resisting protectionism, there was cautious optimism the current economic order may shift, but not crumble.Donald Trump and Steven MnuchinPhotographer: Pete Marovich/BloombergThat suits Beijing, which benefited from a global trading system that fueled its rise from agrarian poverty to the factory to the world. Now, as China’s factories seek to upgrade and the economy is driven less by exports and more by consumption, its leaders appear happy to stick with the current rule book that Trump’s rhetoric, if not his actions, has questioned.China “hasn’t shown much of an interest in setting the agenda,” said Benjamin J. Cohen, a professor of international political economy at University of California, Santa Barbara. “It’s expensive. Once you take on a leadership role, you have to be prepared to offer pecuniary incentives, or in some cases make sacrifices, to preserve the stability of the whole system.”That’s not to say China isn’t playing a growing role at international summits like the one in Washington. It is often a leading voice resisting Trump’s campaign pledges to impose tariffs and reshape international accords.‘Resist Protectionism’"It is especially important to enhance the multilateral system of open and free trade and investment, jointly resist protectionism, and accelerate the liberalization of global trade and investment," People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a statement released during the meetings of the IMF’s 189 member nations.That’s a reminder policy makers are still nervous Trump could yet unleash the kind of punishing tariffs and trade barriers that he promised during his campaign. A new steel probe the U.S. unveiled last week on the eve of the IMF confab is an example of the kind of actions that could stoke tensions, especially with China.In Davos in January, President Xi Jinping called globalization an inevitable force that nations must come to terms with, and said protectionism “is like locking yourself in a dark room.” When finance ministers from the G-20 group of major economies met in Germany last month, China positioned itself as a defender of free trade.Silk RoadEven before Trump’s election, China had begun to establish its own versions of the U.S.-based institutions that have preached the benefits to growth and stability of western-style, free-market capitalism since World War II. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, for example, a development lender based in Beijing, finances projects like roads and bridges in poor countries -- a role traditionally played by the World Bank.The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.In parallel to the institutional channels, there’ll be a physical one. China’s “One Belt, One Road” project will span Eurasia with roads, railways and ports -- slashing the time it takes to move goods or people. And, after Trump’s withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, China is supporting an alternative trade deal with Asia-Pacific nations. All those initiatives could one day form the backbone of a China-led world economy.From Bamboo Network to World Bank Rival, China Takes the WheelFor now, China isn’t ready to take over the mantle of global economic leadership the way the U.S. has for decades, according to Matthew Goodman, a former White House economic adviser who’s now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington."China is not quite comfortable with that role of stepping up," he said. "People want to follow the U.S., but we have got to lead. Nobody wants to follow China."America’s Treasury Secretary made clear the U.S. still wants to lead. "Sustained U.S. economic growth is good for global growth," Steven Mnuchin said on stage Saturday with IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde, the former French finance minister who has championed the we-are-the-world approach to economic harmony.‘America First’Mnuchin’s pitch was a benevolent reframing of Trump’s nationalist rhetoric: ‘America First’ can work for the rest of the world too.Globalization powered China’s economic growth that averaged almost 10 percent annually since 2001, when it joined the World Trade Organization. In 2009, China became the world’s biggest exporter, and not by adhering to the free-trade rule book, its critics say.Some officials in the Trump administration have criticized China for inhibiting fair and open commerce -- Peter Navarro, one of his chief trade advisers, wrote a book on the topic. Complaints have zeroed in on claims China floods the world with subsidized steel and aluminum, and bullies foreign firms into handing over intellectual property.And, of course, there were Trump’s campaign accusations about China manipulating its currency to gain an edge. This month, the U.S. refrained from using that designation.China’s IndustrializationGeorge Magnus, an associate at Oxford University’s China Centre and former adviser at UBS Group AG, says there are strictly economic reasons why today’s China is ill-suited to play a “hegemonic” role.To be a global leader, said Magnus, “you have to be a source of liquidity to the world and allow foreigners to accumulate claims in your currency on you. This means China would have to either run trade deficits in perpetuity, or allow capital to flow freely and in large quantities out of the country. I don’t see China being willing or able to do either.”So while Trump may rail against America’s trade deficits, they’ve made the country’s economic preeminence a more attractive proposition for the rest of the world by making it a consumer of last resort. And, when it comes to parking the profits of those sales, there are few restrictions on capital flows -- in contrast with China.Asia’s largest economy, by contrast, has run some of the biggest external surpluses in history, though they’ve contracted in relation to GDP in recent years. And that has taken a toll on American manufacturers: research by Massachusetts Institute of Technology scholar David Autor and others found more job losses in the U.S. regions most exposed to competition with Chinese imports.Chinese leaders understand the “tremendous social pressures” that technology and globalization have placed on the U.S. and other advanced economies, said Xiao Geng, a professor of finance and public policy at the University of Hong Kong. “Xi is willing to make significant concessions in the area of trade and investment so as to help the short-term adjustment.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-23/republican-cracks-emerging-in-trump-s-coal-heavy-energy-plan
Republican Cracks Emerge in Trump's Coal-Heavy Energy PlanQuickTake: Trump Pushes Coal RevivalFor all Donald Trump’s efforts to revive coal, market forces and some of his own supporters are vying to write their own version of America’s energy future.Divisions persist among the president’s supporters -- and even within his own cabinet -- about whether to continue subsidies for wind and solar power, enact a carbon tax, remain party to the Paris climate accord and plenty of other issues that will shape the U.S. energy landscape.“Seventy five percent of Trump supporters like renewables and want to advance renewables,” Debbie Dooley, a Tea Party organizer and solar energy activist, said at a Bloomberg New Energy Finance conference in New York on Monday. “The conversation has changed. You have to have the right message. Talk about energy freedom and choice. The lightbulb will go off.”The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.Trump may be resolutely committed to fossil fuels, but the economic reality is renewables are now among the cheapest sources of electricity. Wind and solar were the biggest sources of power added to U.S. grids three years running, becoming key sources of jobs in rural America. That’s created clean-energy constituencies in North Carolina, Texas and other parts of the country that supported Trump in November.To be clear, there are enough members of Trump’s cabinet who deny the basic science of global warming that there is little, if any, chance the administration will enthusiastically support clean energy. Instead, the debate is apt to hinge on whether the president will try to actively reverse market forces allowing wind and solar to flourish.That tug-of-war will play out in the weeks to come at the White House, in corporate board rooms and at economic summits in Italy and Germany. On Tuesday, U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry will shed light on the debate at the Bloomberg New Energy Finance gathering, which also will feature Myron Ebell, an avowed climate-change denier who headed Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency transition team.Last week, Ebell said the book is closing on clean power.“This large-scale effort to move the grid to solar and wind is a dead end,” Ebell, director of the Competitive Enterprise Institute’s Center for Energy and Environment, said in an interview. “The wind and solar industries have peaked.”Policy MattersIn many ways little has changed in America’s energy markets since Trump took office. States including California, New York and Massachusetts continue to move forward with aggressive policies to cut carbon emissions. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Alphabet Inc.’s Google and other businesses continue to power facilities with wind and solar energy.How to Hit the Brakes on Climate Change(Source: Bloomberg)Still, federal policy matters.Despite the president’s executive orders, much of his energy blueprint remains a work in progress. That includes a position on tax credits for wind and solar, how energy fits into a federal infrastructure plan and how, if at all, the administration plans to keep uneconomical coal plants open.So investors will listen closely as Perry -- who oversaw record expansions of wind power as Texas governor -- steps to the microphone at this week’s conference.“There are a lot of blanks to be filled in,” Ethan Zindler, an analyst with New Energy Finance in Washington, said in an interview.Paris QuestionPerhaps no issue engenders more debate within the Trump administration than the Paris accord. The president famously vowed to “cancel” the landmark agreement during the campaign. Afterward, he said he’d keep an open mind about it.Two key events next month are likely to force him to make a decision. Leaders from the Group of Seven nations meet for an economic summit in Italy on May 26 and have indicated they will push Trump to sign off on a joint statement supporting efforts to fight climate change. And envoys hashing out details of the Paris accord will gather in Germany for two weeks of discussions concluding May 18.Meanwhile, Trump’s advisers have staked out their positions. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and chief strategist Stephen Bannon are among those pushing to scrap the Paris deal, brokered in 2015 by almost 200 nations. Opposite them stand Trump’s daughter, Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and others.Pressure is coming from outside the White House on both sides of the debate. Coal baron Robert E. Murray has pushed Trump to scrap the deal. Other energy companies have endorsed the accord, including Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, BP Plc and liquefied natural gas exporter Cheniere Energy Inc.“Domestic energy companies are better positioned to compete globally if the United States remains a party to the Paris agreement,” Cheniere Chief Commercial Officer Anatol Feygin wrote in an April 17 letter to G. David Banks, a White House energy adviser.Beyond WashingtonOutside the beltway, Trump supporters are split over energy policy, too. The president received strong support from coal-rich regions of West Virginia, Wyoming and Kentucky. Yet recent polls have indicated Trump voters also back renewables, especially in windy states like Iowa and Texas.While wind and solar were the province of liberal environmentalists, conservatives have increasingly begun to see clean energy as way to weaken the power of monopolistic utility companies and bolster America’s energy independence. It doesn’t hurt that wind and solar employ almost 475,000 people in the U.S., almost three times as many as coal.“These are conservative values: jobs, energy freedom, choice, personal liberty,” Dooley said. “There is really a green revolution going on within the Republican party.”Ebell doesn’t buy it. And he doesn’t see Trump backing away from his pledge to back fossil fuels.“The president has a very definite agenda on increasing oil and gas production,” Ebell said. “Wind and solar are always going to be secondary. They are always going to be a pain in the neck.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-23/white-house-talks-tough-on-wall-funding-ahead-of-spending-fight
White House Appears Ready to Go to the Mat for Its Border WallMulvaney Willing to Trade Health Payments for Wall MoneyThe White House appeared ready to go to the mat for its planned Mexican border wall in this week’s must-pass spending bill, setting up a clash with Democrats that may make a government shutdown at week’s end more likely.“The Democrats don’t want money from budget going to border wall despite the fact that it will stop drugs and very bad MS 13 gang members,” President Donald Trump said in previewing the budget fight on Twitter on Sunday. (MS-13 is a criminal gang of mostly Central American origin.) Mexico will pay for the wall “at a later date,” Trump said.In a separate Twitter message, the president said Democrats need “big money” to keep Obamacare going -- something the administration has offered in return for border-wall funding.White House chief of staff Reince Priebus said he expects money earmarked in the spending bill to be enough “to move forward” with Trump’s proposed wall. “We expect money for border security in this bill. And it ought to be,” Priebus said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”‘Don’t Know Yet’Asked on “Fox News Sunday” whether Trump will sign a government-funding bill that doesn’t include money for the border wall, Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget, would only say, “We don’t know yet.”Mulvaney accused Democrats of being obstructionists on the funding and holding national security hostage.Dick Durbin of Illinois, the Senate’s number-two Democrat, on CNN’s “State of the Union” said that for Trump to consider shutting down the government over border wall funding “would be the height of irresponsibility.” And House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said on NBC that the wall “is, in my view, immoral, expensive, unwise.”The office of Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto reiterated Sunday in a statement to Bloomberg News that Mexico will not pay for the wall.Speaker Paul Ryan told House Republican colleagues on Saturday that a spending bill will be ready in time to avert a potential government shutdown at week’s end and keep agencies running and financed through the end of September.Ryan provided few details of that bill, though, during a conference call with rank-and-file members, according to three members who participated.No Wall DiscussionThere was no discussion on the roughly 20-minute call of how any deal on a bill to keep government funded until the Oct. 1 start of a new fiscal year would resolve unsettled issues, including whether money would be provided for Trump’s wall.On CNN on Sunday, John Kelly, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said he suspects that Trump “will be insistent on the funding” for the wall as part of negotiations to keep the government open move ahead. “It goes without saying that the president has been pretty straightforward about his desire and the need for a border wall,” he said.Yet, the Republican congressional members said Ryan insisted that a bill will be finalized between Congress and the White House before an existing spending measure expires and government funding dries up after April 28. Trump will mark his 100th day in office a day later.Neither the speaker nor several top lieutenants, who also spoke during the call, brought up the possible need for a shorter, stop-gap version of a spending bill to allow more time for negotiating, said the members, who spoke on the condition they not be identified so they could speak freely.Do SomethingRyan expressed urgency during the call for Republicans to show they can get something accomplished -- even telling members their future as a majority party will depend on it. Ryan said Americans expect Republicans -- who control both chambers of Congress as well as the White House -- to govern, and that they’re entering a pivotal time, the members said.Congressional Democrats, whose votes would be needed in the Senate and possibly also the House to pass such a spending bill, have said they won’t support money for Trump’s border wall.Ryan said details of a spending bill deal would be unveiled when House members arrive back in Washington on Tuesday after their two-week spring recess.All three members said Ryan made clear he didn’t want their discussions to be publicized. At one point, they said, the speaker explained his reluctance to lay out specifics because he didn’t trust that members of his own conference weren’t recording the meeting or even streaming live audio.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/trump-speaks-to-abe-xi-on-north-korea-amid-u-s-japan-drills
Xi Urges Restraint on North Korea in Phone Call With TrumpTrump Says China Is Working Hard to Rein in North KoreaChinese President Xi Jinping called for restraint on North Korea in a phone call with Donald Trump, who also spoke with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as the U.S. and Japan began joint naval drills in the region.Xi -- in his second confirmed phone conversation with Trump since their summit this month -- urged all parties to avoid any actions that might exacerbate tensions on the Korean Peninsula, state broadcaster China Central Television said Monday. Abe told reporters following a separate call with Trump that he had praised the U.S. leader’s policy of keeping all options on the table for countering the North Korean threat.Abe said Japan had begun naval exercises with the USS Carl Vinson, an aircraft carrier leading a strike group into the region. South Korea is also considering whether to conduct drills with the U.S. naval flotilla, which embarked for the Korean Peninsula after initial confusion about an itinerary that first saw it bound for joint exercises with Australia.Speculation is once again mounting over whether North Korea will conduct a sixth nuclear test Tuesday to mark a key date on the nation’s calendar -- this time the 85th anniversary of the Korean People’s Army. The regime refrained from carrying out a test when it celebrated the birth date of its founder Kim Il Sung earlier this month, instead unsuccessfully launching a ballistic missile.In his call with Xi, “Trump criticized North Korea’s continued belligerence and emphasized that Pyongyang’s actions are destabilizing the Korean Peninsula,” the White House said in a statement Monday.Graphic on Kim Jong Un’s nuclear push toward AmericaNorth Korea may have resumed work at its Punggye-ri nuclear test site, according to analysis of satellite imagery by 38 North, a program at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies that studies the nation’s nuclear activities.“I said I had high regard for President Trump’s ability to use actions and words to show that all options are on the table,” Abe told media including public broadcaster NHK in Tokyo. “We were in complete agreement that we would need to continue to firmly urge restraint by North Korea, given that it has continued these dangerous provocations.”On Xi’s call with Trump, he said China firmly opposed any action that violates United Nations Security Council resolutions, and called for regular China-U.S. contact in what he described as a rapidly changing international situation, according to CCTV. Trump said he hopes to meet Xi in person again soon, following their summit at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, and looks forward to a state visit to China, CCTV reported.‘Strengthen Coordination’The White House said in its statement that Trump and Xi agreed to “strengthen coordination” to achieve denuclearization on the Korean peninsula.Kim Jong Un’s regime is seeking to develop the ability to fire a nuclear warhead as far as North America, justifying the program as a deterrent against attack. Trump has been trying to get China to do more to bring its neighbor and ally into line, saying last week that he had “absolute confidence” that Xi could help solve the issue.China’s willingness to press North Korea has sparked a battle between the nations’ media outlets. Without referring to China by name, North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency said April 21 that “the country is talking rubbish that the DPRK has to reconsider the importance of relations with it” and that China was “dancing to the tune” of the U.S. DPRK is an abbreviation for North Korea.Read more on North Korea snubbing Chinese diplomatsGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.In response, China’s Communist Party-affiliated Global Times newspaper wrote in a commentary that “no matter how many articles KCNA publishes, whatever future measures North Korea takes, Beijing’s stance wouldn’t be affected.” If North Korea conducts a nuclear test, “Beijing will undoubtedly support the UN in adopting tougher sanctions against it, including oil embargo,” said the newspaper, which is known for its nationalistic views.KCNA also denounced the U.S.’s aircraft carrier deployment. “Such intimidation and blackmail can never frighten the DPRK,” it said, adding that the country “will react to a total war with an all-out war.”Envoys from the U.S., South Korea and Japan are scheduled to meet in Tokyo on Tuesday to discuss ways to deter any additional provocation from North Korea and secure a constructive role for China, South Korea’s foreign ministry said last week.Meanwhile, reports emerged that North Korea had detained a U.S. citizen, bringing to three the number of Americans being held in the isolated country. Tony Kim, also known by his Korean name Kim Sang-duk, was detained on Saturday, the Associated Press reported, citing Park Chan-mo, the chancellor of the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/giuliani-talk-with-erdogan-adds-mystery-to-u-s-sanctions-case
Giuliani’s Talk With Erdogan Adds Mystery to U.S. Sanctions CaseIt’s a surprising role for Giuliani, who was dubbed "America’s Mayor" for his uncompromising response to the 2001 terrorist attacks as mayor of New York. An early supporter of President Donald Trump, Giuliani has helped him search for a legal way to ban Muslim immigrants and served as an informal adviser, tasked with building private sector partnerships on cyber-security.Now, Giuliani has joined a star-studded roster of lawyers representing Reza Zarrab, who is accused of using his network of companies to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through the U.S. financial system to aid the mullahs in Tehran. In a court filing last week, Giuliani said he’s met with senior officials in the U.S. and Turkey, including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in an effort to broker a deal that might benefit Zarrab and bolster U.S. national-security interests. A judge has scheduled a hearing for Monday that may shed light on Giuliani’s activities.The unorthodox approach is drawing scrutiny and comparisons to other cases, where the U.S. took a hard line on companies accused of violating sanctions or moving Iran’s money. David Kelley, a former U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said prosecutors cherish their independence, removed from politics and foreign-policy considerations, and blanch at any suggestion that a criminal case might be compromised."They’re looking to resolve a criminal case through political means," he said of Giuliani and another Zarrab lawyer, former U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey. Their actions “run the risk of politicizing the Justice Department, and every time that happens in one form or another, there are serious consequences and fallout from it,” added Kelley, who’s not involved in the case.Click here for more on the Zarrab casePreet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan until he was fired last month, appeared to be voicing the same worry in a tweet last week: "One just hopes that the rule of law, and its independent enforcement, still matters in the United States and at the Department of Justice." Prosecutors on the case have also demanded to know what Giuliani is up to.The case has roiled diplomatic relations with Turkey, where Erdogan assailed Bharara for bringing the charges against Zarrab, his close associate. Once a staunch U.S. ally, Turkey has drifted away from the West as Erdogan has grown more autocratic and friendly toward Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump was one of the few world leaders to congratulate Erdogan on his recent win of a referendum giving sweeping powers to the president.Proposed DealIn their court filing, Giuliani and Mukasey said “senior officials” in the U.S. and Turkey “remain receptive” to a deal that could promote the security of the U.S. They said the willingness of the U.S. to negotiate is not surprising because the alleged scheme involved consumer goods, not nuclear technology or other contraband, and that they had briefed both Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Bharara “in general terms” before their trip to Turkey in February.Calls to the lawyers’ offices on Friday weren’t returned.It remains to be seen whether the Justice Department will agree to a deal for Zarrab, who’s being held in a Manhattan lockup. Erdogan’s talks with Vice President Joe Biden in September failed to win the trader’s freedom. Richard Holwell, a former federal judge in New York, said it’s not unusual for lawyers for influential defendants to seek a political resolution to a case, but it’s rare for such maneuvering to succeed because the Justice Department resists the politicization of law enforcement."There are sometimes lawyers in the courtroom talking to the judge and prosecutors, and then there is a separate line of communication at the diplomatic level," said Holwell. "The idea that Messrs. Giuliani and Mukasey would pay a visit to Erdogan doesn’t surprise me. The only thing that surprises me is whether Zarrab is that valuable a piece in the game that Erdogan would be interested in communicating with those in the U.S."Possible ConflictYet the lawyers’ politicking has clearly raised concerns for the trial judge, who is certain to pose more questions at Monday’s hearing or a later one. At a minimum, U.S. District Judge Richard Berman will explore whether Zarrab understands that his lawyers may have a conflict-of-interest because their firms represented banks alleged to have been victims of the plot.But he will likely delve deeper into Giuliani’s and Mukasey’s roles.“In a sense, the judge’s raising this conflict-of-interest question is a back door way into getting more information from Zarrab’s team,” said Peter Henning, a law professor at Wayne State University in Detroit. "The judge is flying blind on what’s going on here.”Sanctions EvasionEmanuele Ottolenghi of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington-based think tank that has advised lawmakers writing Iran sanctions legislation, said it’s understandable why the Turkish government would press for a deal."The Zarrab case is going to be a treasure trove for people who study sanctions evasion," said Ottolenghi. "We will learn a lot about Zarrab, but also we’re going to learn about how complicit Turkey was as a whole in allowing Iran to evade sanctions. The potential embarrassment and fallout in this case is so vast that it is hard to put a tag on it."Zarrab, who denies wrongdoing, is accused of using his multibillion-dollar network of companies in Turkey and the United Arab Emirates to induce U.S. banks to launder money through transactions that violated international sanctions against Iran. He was arrested in Miami after arriving in the U.S. for a family trip.Prosecutors also say Zarrab played an active role helping to finance an Iranian airline, Mahan Air. The airline is a material supporter of the Iranian National Guard’s Quds Force, a sponsor of terrorism, the U.S. says. Treasury officials said Mahan Air has covertly flown personnel on planes without including them on passenger manifests, including in and out of Syria and Iraq, and ferried weapons for Quds and Hezbollah.Front CompanyStarting in 2015, prosecutors say Zarrab began processing transactions on behalf of a Dubai-based company called Ascot General Trading that served as a front for Mahan to avoid blockades in the financial system. Over the next month, prosecutors say he handled millions of dollars in transactions for the company, some of which passed through New York banks.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.In a related case, prosecutors last month charged Mehmet Hakan Atilla, a senior manager at Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS, a large state-owned bank, with conspiring with Zarrab. Prosecutors cited recorded conversations between Atilla and Zarrab in 2013 which suggested that the two were intentionally trying to disguise transactions involving a Dubai company in such a way that Western banks would approve funding. Atilla denies wrongdoing.The case may have grown out of similar prosecution in Turkey in 2013 that connected Zarrab’s transactions with Iran to payments to senior government officials in Ankara. In 2014, Erdogan dismissed investigators involved in the case, and charges against Zarrab and members of Erdogan’s government were eventually dismissed.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/macron-struggles-in-french-media-spotlight-as-presidency-beckons
Macron Struggles in French Media Spotlight as Presidency BeckonsFuture of France: Macron and Le Pen Go Head-to-HeadEmmanuel Macron stumbled out of the gate in his quest to unify France behind his bid for the French presidency, with some critics accusing him of complacency and a lack of guile in the aftermath of his first-round success.After qualifying for the May 7 runoff alongside far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen, the political rookie gave a 15-minute speech that some observers said would have been more suited to a full election win. The 39-year-old then took his staff to dinner at a left-bank brasserie.“Macron has already made two serious errors,” said Thomas Guenole, a professor of politics at the Sciences Po institute in Paris. “His speech was celebrating victory and then he could find nothing better to do than to celebrate with his troops. He needed to show himself as a statesman and instead he comes across as a child king.”In France, a president can set the tone for his term in office before it’s even started. Nicolas Sarkozy’s 2007 victory celebration at an upscale restaurant cemented his flashy reputation and Francois Hollande’s efforts to lead a national revival never really recovered from his drenching in an inauguration-day downpour in 2012.‘Such Rejection’While polls show Macron should win the May 7 contest by about 20 percentage points, the risk for Macron is that voters will be turned off by any sense of complacency. That will make it harder for him to rally an electorate traumatized by a sense that they have been forgotten by the political elite and, ultimately, push his agenda through parliament.“The risk is that it’s a tight victory,” said Guenole.Justified or not, the scene at the Rotonde restaurant in downtown Paris resonates particularly badly. The French press is already drawing a comparison with Sarkozy’s party at Fouquet’s, a more expensive Parisian eatery -- Le Figaro newspaper headlined a story, La Rotonde, the New Fouquet’s?Jacques Chirac was anything but celebratory when he faced Le Pen’s father Jean-Marie in the the 2002 runoff, speaking of his “gravitas and determination” in a solemn five-minute speech.‘Get McDonald’s?’Yet when reporters approached Macron as he was leaving La Rotonde in the early hours of Monday, he failed to appreciate the fuss.“My friend, you have understood nothing,” he said. “It was my pleasure to invite the secretaries, the security officers, the politicians and writers who have been with me since the first day.”“What should we’ve done? Get McDonald’s and stay in the campaign HQ?,” said Aurore Berger, a member of the Macron team, in a telephone interview.Le Pen’s campaign pounced, saying the party was just another sign that Macron is a “bobo,” or “bourgeois bohemian,” out of touch with ordinary people.“Macron and all his bobo friends at the Rotonde, the ultra-Parisian place,” Le Pen aide Wallerand de Saint Just said.Macron’s tally doesn’t compare well with other winning candidates. Of the 10 elections held under current rules, only Chirac won the presidency with a lower proportion of the vote in the first round.To win a broad majority, it will be essential to close the gap with less well-off voters. Data show Le Pen scoring much better with voters earning less than 2,000 euros per month and Jean-Luc Melenchon, the Communist-backed candidate who took 19.6 percent of the vote, has so far refused to endorse Macron.Le Pen’s tactic for the second-round campaign is to attack Macron on his social credentials. David Rachline, her campaign chief of staff stated it clearly shortly after her victory speech in Henin-Beaumont, a former mining town in impoverished northern France.“We believe that this race into globalization will be even worse,” he said. “A brutal acceleration will come with Macron.”Assuming he wins, the early days of a Macron presidency could be shaped by the margin of his victory over Le Pen -- a candidate still vilified in large parts of the country.“Over and above winning, what is needed is to convince and unite the country,” Marie-Anne Montchamp, a former junior minister under Sarkozy, was quoted as saying in Le Parisien newspaper. “Some victories create the fractures of the future.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-05-10/senior-republicans-closing-ranks-behind-trump-after-comey-firing
GOP Closes Ranks Behind Trump Amid Democrats' Comey FurySenators React to Comey OusterSenior Senate Republicans closed ranks behind President Donald Trump Wednesday after his dismissal of FBI Director James Comey, rejecting calls for a special prosecutor to investigate Russia’s meddling in the election and possible collusion with Trump’s campaign.The Senate Intelligence Committee pressed on with its investigation, announcing that a subpoena was issued for documents from Michael Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser who was fired after giving misleading statements about his conversations with Russia’s U.S. ambassador.The panel requested the documents last month but Flynn, through his lawyer, refused to provide them. Flynn is a central figure in multiple probes into whether any Trump associates colluded with Russians acting to interfere with the U.S. presidential election.James ComeyPhotographer: Andrew Harrer/BloombergRepublican leaders insisted the turmoil shouldn’t harm their legislative agenda, including overhauls of health-care and tax laws. Still, there was an undercurrent of unease among some in the GOP about the timing and rationale given for the firing even as party leaders dismissed Democratic protests."I’m sure they’ll make the most of it but we’re going to keep plowing ahead," Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the second-ranking Senate Republican, said about Democrats in an interview at the Capitol. He and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell dismissed Minority Leader Chuck Schumer’s call for a special prosecutor."You get whiplash with Senator Schumer’s position on Comey," Cornyn said. "One day he thinks he’s a knight on a white horse, the next day he’s the devil incarnate, so I don’t believe it’s sincere."‘Serious Doubts’Schumer, speaking on the Senate floor, cited reports that Comey met last week with Rod Rosenstein -- the deputy attorney general who this week recommended his firing -- to seek more resources for the Russia investigation.“That might be the reason he was fired -- because he was pursuing the investigation in an accelerated way,” Schumer said. He said "serious doubts" had been cast on Rosenstein’s impartiality.A handful of Republicans said they were troubled by the timing of Comey’s firing, though, and that they want briefings from the administration on why Trump acted now. Some, including Jeff Flake of Arizona, Bob Corker of Tennessee and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, said they haven’t decided whether there should be a special prosecutor.QuickTake Q&A: What Happens to Trump-Russia Probe After Comey"I just don’t know why this happened now. I’m having trouble with it still," Flake said. "With regard to a special prosecutor, I’m looking to see how that would impact the Senate investigation that’s going on."Senator John McCain of Arizona repeated his call for a select committee to investigate the Russian interference, though he said in an interview he wasn’t calling for a special prosecutor.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Late Wednesday, Utah Republican Jason Chaffetz, chairman of the House Oversight Committee, requested a closer look at Comey’s firing. In a statement announcing a letter he sent to Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz, Chaffetz requested Horowitz expand his office’s January 2017 review of Justice’s and the FBI’s conduct during the 2016 election to include the administration’s decision to fire Comey."Previously I asked Inspector General Horowitz to review the FBI’s actions in advance of the 2016 election," Chaffetz said in the statement. "Today I sent a letter urging IG Horowitz to expand the scope of his review to include the decision to fire Director Comey. I look forward to receiving the IG’s findings."Confidence in ProbeMany other Republicans said they had confidence that the FBI would continue to investigate. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana said Comey had become a distraction from the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s mission and that the director wasn’t running the day-to-day probe anyway."Everybody says the guy who was running the investigation was fired and that’s not true," Cassidy said. The person leading the probe would have been reporting to Comey and would still be there to continue the job, he said.Bill CassidyPhotographer: Zach Gibson/AFP via Getty ImagesCassidy also said he didn’t think the firing would affect the Senate’s legislative agenda because Democrats weren’t on board with it. Until Democrats engage, "it doesn’t change things at all," he said.Democrats met privately to plot their response. In his floor speech, Schumer said they will insist that a special prosecutor be appointed by a career Justice Department official rather than Rosenstein, that Comey must testify before senators, and that Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions undergo questioning from senators in separate private briefings.The minority leader said Democrats will pursue "several things" in coming days. They began slowing down the Senate’s operations Wednesday, refusing to allow committee meetings to run longer than two hours. A spokesman for Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic whip, said the repeated objections were on purpose."Today is not a business-as-usual day with a constitutional crisis on our hands," said Ben Marter, Durbin’s spokesman.Ryan’s ResponseThe House is on recess this week, and its four top Republican leaders were publicly silent until Speaker Paul Ryan appeared on Fox News late in the day.Asked whether a special prosecutor should be appointed, he said, "I don’t think that’s a good idea," adding that the current investigations by the FBI and congressional committees "are the way to go."“I believe that Director Comey was compromised” and that led to his firing, Ryan of Wisconsin said about 24 hours after the firing. He added, "There has never been any evidence presented" of direct collusion between Trump and Russia.Short DiscussionSenate Republicans sought to portray a business-as-usual attitude. Walking out of a Senate Republican caucus meeting, Bob Corker of Tennessee said members discussed the Comey issue for "maybe 90 or 120 seconds" and that Republicans are reacting on their own rather than as a concerted party line.Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr said he was focusing on his committee’s probe and rejected talk of a special prosecutor.Richard BurrPhotographer: Win McNamee/Getty Images"My committee has got the jurisdictional responsibility to investigate this. We are going to do that," Burr told reporters. The North Carolina Republican maintained that he has questions about the Comey firing and that it complicates his task, but argued that it will still be done."The timing of this and the reasoning for it doesn’t make sense to me. It creates challenges for the committee," Burr said. "I would rather see this easier than more difficult. I think this made our task a little more difficult, but it didn’t make it impossible."‘I Don’t Have Faith’Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, said he wants a career official at the Justice Department to name a special counsel instead of Rosenstein."I don’t have faith in the political appointees. So it should be appointed by the senior most career lawyer at the Justice Department," Warner of Virginia said.Burr and Warner have invited Comey to appear in a closed hearing on Tuesday.Rosenstein wrote the memo leading to Comey’s firing just weeks after he was confirmed on a 94-6 vote. The memo faulted Comey for his handling of an investigation last year into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s private email server.Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said Trump called her at about 5:30 p.m. Tuesday to inform her that he was firing Comey.‘Taken Aback’“President Trump specifically stated that the recommendation was provided by Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Attorney General Sessions," she said. "He said that the reason was because the department was a mess. I was obviously surprised and taken aback.”Dianne FeinsteinPhotographer: Eric Thayer/Getty ImagesFeinstein said she had a number of questions. “Why did the president make reference to the Russia investigation in his letter to Director Comey? Was the reason for his dismissal because the department was a mess and lacked leadership or not? If the reason for firing Comey was because of his handling of the Clinton investigation, why now?”Feinstein agreed with Warner that a career Justice Department official should choose a special prosecutor."I voted for Mr. Rosenstein, but if you read his paper, it’s not a legal paper," Feinstein said. "Its quotes are assembled from other people and I thought very troubling. And what the president said is that he accepted the recommendation. So as I read the recommendation, it was not legal. It was not done on any legal theory."
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-25/u-s-north-korea-flex-military-muscles-as-tensions-remain-high
U.S., North Korea Flex Military Muscles as Tensions Remain HighThe USS Michigan at Busan port on April 25.  Photographer: Jo Jung-ho/Yonhap via AP PhotoA U.S. nuclear-powered submarine arrived in South Korea on Tuesday as North Korea reportedly celebrated the 85th anniversary of its army with its largest-ever military firing exercise.The USS Michigan, one of four Ohio-class guided-missile submarines capable of launching cruise missiles, arrived at the southern port of Busan, U.S. Naval Forces Korea said in a statement. South Korea’s navy said there aren’t plans for a joint military drill with the submarine.South Korea’s defense ministry said that it’s closely watching the Wonsan area of North Korea after Yonhap News reported that Kim Jong Un attended the live-fire exercise in the area east of Pyongyang. The report comes amid expectations that North Korea may seek to mark the anniversary of the Korean People’s Army with its sixth nuclear test.While the U.S. military described the submarine’s visit as part of routine patrols in the Asia-Pacific region, it also has an aircraft carrier near the Korean Peninsula. The Trump administration is seeking to press North Korea by emphasizing that all options -- including military -- are on the table.Envoys on North Korean affairs from the U.S., Japan and South Korea met in Tokyo on Tuesday, agreeing to maintain pressure on Kim’s regime to give up its nuclear program. Joseph Yun, the U.S. special representative for North Korea policy, told reporters after the meeting that “China has a very, very important role to play” to achieve the goal.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/trump-advisers-said-set-to-discuss-tax-plan-with-top-republicans
Trump Tax Plan Said to Call for Corporate Rate Cut to 15%Trump Aides Said Set to Talk Tax Plan With GOP LeadersPresident Donald Trump will call for cutting taxes for individuals and lowering the corporate rate to 15 percent to fulfill a promise he made during his campaign, according to a White House official.The president on Wednesday plans to make public the broad outlines of what he wants to change in the tax code, though the details likely will be left until later negotiations among congressional leaders and officials from Treasury.Trump’s top economic adviser Gary Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin will brief House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and the leaders of congressional tax-writing committees -- House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.While Trump and Ryan broadly agree on sharply cutting individual income and corporate taxes, there are areas of disagreement between the two. On the campaign, Trump called for a corporate tax rate of 15 percent; Ryan wants 20 percent, and he has warned that cutting it an additional 5 percentage points could prevent the ultimate tax plan from being revenue neutral. Without Democratic support, a plan would have to be revenue neutral to meet the criteria set by lawmakers to make tax changes permanent.“I’m not sure he’s going to be able to get away with that,” Hatch told reporters Monday. “You can’t very well balance the budget that way.”The Wall Street Journal reported the corporate rate cut earlier.Economic GrowthThe tax plan release will come in the middle of a busy week in which the White House and congressional leaders are working against a Saturday deadline to negotiate a spending deal to avoid a partial shutdown of the federal government. Trump is also pushing House Republicans to re-start work on a replacement for Obamacare after the last attempt imploded in March when conservatives walked away.Mnuchin has signaled previously that the administration is more concerned about spurring economic growth and job creation than with the impact on government revenue.He said Monday that Trump is “very determined” that the U.S. can achieve sustained economic growth of 3 percent or greater, which would pay for the tax cuts along with “trillions of dollars” brought in from offshore havens.“The tax plan will pay for itself with economic growth,” Mnuchin said.Mnuchin told reporters that Trump’s principles will include a “middle income tax cut,” and cuts in business taxes as well as “simplification” of the code so most Americans can file taxes on a postcard.Border TaxThe president likely won’t include a controversial border-adjusted tax that Ryan has backed, a senior administration official said last week. The border-adjusted tax would replace the 35 percent corporate rate with a 20 percent rate applied to companies’ domestic sales and imported goods, while exempting their exports.While White House and congressional staff have been talking since the transition about a tax plan, Tuesday’s meeting will be the first between Republican congressional leadership and the key figures driving tax reform in the White House, one congressional official said.“That’s the beginning of a negotiation,” Stephen Moore, an economist who advised the Trump campaign on tax policy, said referring to the 15 percent rate. “Maybe we end up with 17 1/2 percent.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/trump-adviser-gorka-walks-off-stage-at-a-discussion-of-fake-news
Trump Adviser Gorka Walks Off Stage at a Discussion of Fake NewsSebastian Gorka speaks during the Conservative Political Action Conference at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland, Feb. 24, 2017.  Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty ImagesTrump adviser Sebastian Gorka, under fire for his alleged association with a Hungarian nationalist group and his views on Islam, walked off the stage during a conference in Washington after facing questions from students and protesters he said distracted from other participants.Gorka, a deputy assistant to President Donald Trump, was on a panel at Georgetown University on Monday titled “News, Alternative Facts and Propaganda: The Role of Cyber in Influence Operations.” Other panelists included Finnish and Estonian government officials.As Gorka took the stage, a group of students at the back of the lecture hall held up homemade signs, including a young man wearing a yarmulke whose poster read: “Gorka’s Gotta Go” next to a crossed-out swastika symbol. After intense questioning, Gorka said he was leaving the stage “to allow my colleagues to actually get questions about the issues on the table.”Gorka, who previously served as national security editor for the conservative Breitbart News, has been an outspoken advocate of Trump’s policies on issues from fighting terrorism to U.S. relations with the Muslim world. During his Georgetown presentation, Gorka dismissed accusations that he’s anti-Semitic and called Trump’s White House one of the “most pro-Israeli administrations in U.S. history.”Democratic Letter“Every single person holding a placard to protest my parents and myself, I challenge you now go away and look at everything I have said or written in the last 46 years of my life and find one sentence that is anti-Semitic or that is anti-Israeli, because you won’t find one,” Gorka said.Last month, Democratic Senators Ben Cardin, Dick Durbin and Richard Blumenthal asked the Department of Homeland Security and the Justice Department to investigate whether Gorka falsified his U.S. naturalization application by failing to disclose his membership in a far-right Christian Hungarian organization known as the Vitezi Rend, which had an association with the Nazi party in the mid-1940s.During the question-and-answer period, several students grilled Gorka on a range of topics, from anti-Muslim rhetoric to Breitbart. Its former chairman Stephen Bannon is now a top strategist for Trump.Addressing the students, Gorka said, “You are the victims of fake news” and he called his experience a “superb case study of fake news.”Resistance GroupGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.One student asked Gorka if he was a member of Vitezi Rend. Gorka chronicled his father’s life, saying he was awarded a medal for his resistance to fascist and communist dictators by an anti-communist group created in the West that shared its name with an older organization known as the Order of Vitezi. Gorka pointed to his statement last month to Tablet, a Jewish magazine, in which he denied being a member of the group.“I have never taken an oath of loyalty to the Vitezi Rend. Since childhood, I have occasionally worn my father’s medal and used the ‘v.’ initial to honor his struggle against totalitarianism,” he told the magazine following a report from the publication Forward that leaders of the group claimed Gorka was a formal member.Gorka said many “palace intrigue” stories written about the White House now help sell newspapers but often present events that are “totally contrary to what happened inside the building.”On classic investigative journalism, Gorka said: “Those days are behind us.”After answering a series of questions, Gorka gathered his things and abruptly walked from the stage and exited through a side door. The panel continued.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/trump-said-to-plan-20-tariff-on-canadian-softwood-lumber-j1wq4tyg
Trump Slaps Duty on Canada Lumber, Intensifying Trade FightU.S. President Donald Trump intensified a trade dispute with Canada, slapping tariffs of up to 24 percent on imported softwood lumber in a move that drew swift criticism from the Canadian government, which vowed to sue if needed.Trump announced the new tariff at a White House gathering of conservative journalists, shortly before the Commerce Department said it would impose countervailing duties ranging from 3 percent to 24.1 percent on Canadian lumber producers including West Fraser Timber Co.“We’re going to be putting a 20% tax on softwood lumber coming in -- tariff on softwood coming into the United States from Canada,” Trump said Monday, according to a tweet by Charlie Spiering, a White House correspondent for Breitbart News. A White House official confirmed the comment.The step escalates an economic battle among neighboring countries that normally have one of the friendliest international relationships in the world. U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross amplified Trump’s remarks in a statement afterward that also referenced a fight over a new Canadian milk policy that U.S. producers say violates Nafta.“It has been a bad week for U.S.-Canada trade relations,” Ross said, adding “it became apparent that Canada intends to effectively cut off the last dairy products being exported from the United States." He said the Commerce Department “determined a need” because of unfair Canadian subsidies to the lumber industry to impose “countervailing duties of roughly one billion dollars.”In a dig at the North American Free Trade Agreement, which Trump has said he wants to renegotiate, Ross added, “This is not our idea of a properly functioning Free Trade Agreement.”Canada ResponseCanada fired back, saying the tariff is an "unfair and punitive duty" imposed on "baseless and unfounded" allegations, according to a joint statement from Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland and Natural Resources Minister Jim Carr. The measures will hurt workers on both sides of the border and will raise U.S. home prices, they said.Canada "will vigorously defend the interests of the Canadian softwood lumber industry, including through litigation," the ministers said, adding they nonetheless "remain confident that a negotiated settlement is not only possible but in the best interests of both countries.”The Canadian dollar dropped to a 4-month low against the U.S. dollar after Trump announced the tariff, trading down 0.40 percent to C$1.356. The loonie traded at 73.8 U.S. cents.In the latest chapter of a trade dispute that has been simmering for decades, the U.S. Department of Commerce in a preliminary determination Monday said it has calculated that Canada subsidizes Canfor Corp. by 20.26 percent; West Fraser Mills Ltd. by 24.12 percent; Tolko Marketing and Sales Ltd. and Tolko Industries Ltd. by 19.5 percent; Resolute FP Canada Ltd. by 12.82 percent and J.D. Irving Ltd. by 3.02 percent. It set a preliminary subsidy rate of 19.88 percent for all other producers in Canada.Anti-DumpingGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The so-called countervailing duties, which counter what the U.S. considers Canadian subsidies, came in below some analyst expectations. CIBC analyst Hamir Patel forecast the initial combined countervailing and anti-dumping duties could reach 45 to 55 percent, he said in an April 23 note. The U.S. may also apply anti-dumping duties if it determines Canadian firms are selling for below costs. That decision is expected in June.“It definitely could’ve been a heck of a lot worse,” Kevin Mason, managing director of ERA Forest Products Research said by phone from Kelowna, British Columbia. “I think a lot of people were bracing for a higher duty.”Canadian companies such as Vancouver-based West Fraser and Canfor Corp. will be able to weather the current duty level as lumber prices are high, Mason said. Lumber prices may actually decline in order to curtail Canadian shipments to the U.S., he said.The duties are unwarranted and the determination “is completely without merit,” Susan Yurkovich, president of the B.C. Lumber Trade Council, said in a statement. The allegations are the same made in previous softwood trade battles which were rejected and overturned by independent Nafta panels, she said.The industry group represents companies such as Canfor, West Fraser and Interfor Corp.“This new trade action is driven by the same protectionist lumber lobby in the U.S. whose sole purpose is to create artificial supply constraints on lumber and drive up prices for their benefit, at the expense of American consumers,” Yurkovich said.A detente in the lumber trade dispute expired in October, and a new agreement isn’t on the horizon. That’s contributed to a more than 20 percent surge in wood prices since the U.S. election.Old DisputeSince the early 1980s, the U.S. has argued with Canada over how much softwood lumber the country’s suppliers can sell in the U.S. and at what price. The two nations have negotiated temporary agreements in previous years over softwood, which comes from trees that have cones, like pine or spruce, and is preferred by builders for constructing home frames.But hammering out a new deal has been slow-going for the Trump administration, which still doesn’t have its chief trade negotiator in place.After the latest deal lapsed, a group including U.S. timber companies petitioned an independent government agency and the U.S. Commerce Department for duties on lumber imports from Canada, saying the country unfairly subsidizes its own industry, costing profits and jobs.While signing an executive order Thursday on steel imports, Trump digressed to note that during a trip to Wisconsin earlier in the week, he’d called Canada’s cutting of prices of dairy ingredients "a disgrace" that’s hurt farmers in Wisconsin and New York. He added that the "disgrace" extended to "what’s happening along our northern border states with Canada, having to do with lumber and timber."Higher CostsWhile beneficial for U.S. lumber suppliers, tariffs could lead to even higher costs for companies that buy wood, such as builders and mattress makers, which use it in box springs.Most of the softwood in Canada is owned by provincial governments, which set prices to cut trees on their land, while in the U.S. it’s generally harvested from private property. The fees charged by Canadian governments are below market rates, creating an unfair advantage, U.S. producers say. Canada disputes that.Robert Lighthizer, Trump’s nominee to be the next U.S. Trade Representative, said at his confirmation hearing last month that he views the lumber dispute as the top trade issue between the U.S. and Canada. Oregon Democratic Senator Ron Wyden told Lighthizer the fight is the “longest-running battle since the Trojan War.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/here-are-the-next-seats-republicans-will-have-to-defend-in-special-elections
Here Are the Next Seats Republicans Will Have to Defend in Special ElectionsA higher-profile election April 18 in Georgia produced no majority-vote winner and is going to a second round in June. Democrat Jon Ossoff, a former congressional aide, and Republican Karen Handel, a former Georgia secretary of state, were the top two finishers in an 18-candidate scrum.Special elections are on tap in Montana next month and in California and South Carolina in June. There probably will be one more, in a Pennsylvania district, and we’re keeping our eye on two possible additions, in Oklahoma and Utah.Republicans would be the defending party in every district except in California.Alabama this year will have an unusual, odd-year Senate special election, scheduled by the state’s brand-new governor.As of April 25, when Ron Estes of Kansas is sworn in, the House will have 238 Republicans and 193 Democrats.Here’s what you need to know about the upcoming contests:May 25: Montana’s At-Large DistrictAfter the close races in Kansas and Georgia, watch to see how much national party organizations and activist groups intervene in the contest between Republican businessman Greg Gianforte and Democratic musician Rob Quist. They’re seeking the statewide congressional district Republican Ryan Zinke vacated to become Interior Secretary.Montana votes Republican in presidential elections but can split its tickets. It backed Donald Trump by more than 20 percentage points in the 2016 election while also re-electing Democratic Governor Steve Bullock over Gianforte by four points.Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent who sought the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination, will campaign with Quist next month. Gianforte raised $1.6 million compared with $904,000 for Quist through the end of March, according to Federal Election Commission reports.June 6: California’s 34thIn an all-Democratic runoff, state Assemblyman Jimmy Gomez and lawyer Robert Lee Ahn are seeking a Hispanic-majority, downtown Los Angeles district that’s one of the most strongly Democratic areas in the nation.In the first-round election on April 4, Gomez had 25 percent and Ahn had 22 percent to lead the 23-candidate field and advance to the runoff. The winner will succeed Democrat Xavier Becerra, who resigned in January to become California’s attorney general.Gomez is the preferred candidate of California Democratic leaders, including Becerra and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. Ahn, who was born to South Korean immigrants, advanced to the runoff with strong support from Korean-American voters and donors. California’s 34th includes more Korean-Americans than any other congressional district.June 20: Georgia’s 6thOssoff and Democrats almost succeeded in their campaign to win without a runoff and "flip the 6th," a Republican-leaning area north of Atlanta packed with highly educated suburbanites. Ossoff took 48 percent of the vote in the first-round election, more than Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama won in the district when they were the Democratic presidential nominees.Though Georgia’s 6th is an atypical host for a competitive and consequential House election, its electorate barely opted for Trump in the 2016 election after decades of domination by other GOP candidates including Tom Price, who left to become Trump’s health and human services secretary.Handel, who won 20 percent of all votes in the first-round election, is working to replenish her campaign treasury and unify Republican base voters against Ossoff. She won 39 percent of all Republican votes cast, while Ossoff amassed more than 98 percent of all Democratic votes.An Ossoff-Handel contest "starts out very competitive," political analyst David Wasserman wrote in the Cook Political Report. He rates the race as a tossup.Trump is paying attention. "It is now Hollywood vs. Georgia on June 20th," the president wrote on Twitter. Ossoff raised more than $8.3 million from donors including Rosie O’Donnell and Jane Fonda.Georgia House Race Heads to RunoffJune 20: South Carolina’s 5thSeven Republicans and three Democrats are seeking a Republican-leaning district that includes Rock Hill and other territory in north-central South Carolina. The party primaries will be held May 2, followed by runoffs, if necessary, on May 16.The Republican nominee will be favored to succeed Republican Mick Mulvaney, who resigned in February to become Trump’s budget director. Republican candidates include state representative Tommy Pope, former state legislator Ralph Norman, and former state party chairman Chad Connelly.Connelly aligned with Trump in a campaign commercial featuring praise from two men, one wearing a red hat with the president’s "Make America Great Again" slogan and the other calling Connelly a "big-time Trump guy." A Pope TV spot played up his background as a former police officer and prosecutor. Norman, who lost a bid for this district in 2006, released an ad featuring his 15 grandchildren and highlighting a commitment to "making sure their future and yours is safe and full of opportunity."December 12: Alabama U.S. SenateRepublican Governor Kay Ivey moved the special election for the seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions up 11 months, rescinding the November 2018 election set by her predecessor, Robert Bentley, when he appointed state Attorney General Luther Strange to temporarily fill the vacancy. Bentley just resigned amid scandal and impeachment hearings."This special election will remove any cloud of doubt that might have been associated with the previous process used by the former governor" and "returns the authority to select their representative back to the people," Ivey said.Given Alabama’s strong Republican lean, the decisive election may be the GOP primary on Aug. 15 or a runoff Sept. 26. Strange, who’s running to serve the rest of the unexpired term won by Sessions, may face multiple challengers in the primary, given his association with Bentley. One of them may be Representative Robert Aderholt, who was in the running for the Senate appointment. Aderholt wouldn’t have to give up his House seat to compete.TBD: Pennsylvania’s 10thGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Republican Tom Marino plans to resign to become Trump’s "drug czar," leading the Office of National Drug Control Policy, CBS News reported. Marino, in office since 2011, hasn’t publicly commented on the matter. His district in parts of central and northeastern Pennsylvania is rock-ribbed Republican territory, giving 66 percent to Trump and 62 percent to Republican Senator Pat Toomey in 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.TBD: Oklahoma’s 1stRepublican Jim Bridenstine would vacate a Republican-friendly Tulsa district if Trump taps him to lead the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.TBD: Utah’s 3rdRepublican Jason Chaffetz announced his retirement last week and then said he may resign. The district is so strongly Republican that Clinton came in third there in 2016 behind Trump and Utah-born independent Evan McMullin, who is weighing a campaign to succeed Chaffetz.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-25/china-doubts-u-s-climate-pledge-as-trump-mulls-paris-withdrawal
China Doubts U.S. Climate Pledge as Trump Mulls Paris WithdrawalChina, the world’s top emitter of carbon dioxide, is questioning whether the U.S. is doing enough under President Donald Trump to meet commitments made as part of the landmark Paris climate accord.China joined the U.K., Brazil and other countries in scrutinizing U.S. climate progress in queries filed with the United Nations. The responses illustrate the potential global humiliation -- if not outright retaliation -- the U.S. could incur if Trump decides to keep the country in the pact even as he eviscerates policies central to keeping its carbon-cutting commitment.Top Trump administration officials are still debating whether the U.S. should formally remain a party to the pact signed in 2015. A decision is expected in the coming weeks, but former climate negotiators -- and a pro-Paris contingent in the White House -- say that the stay-in-but-don’t-comply option is better than pulling out altogether, even if it draws complaints from other signatories."Weakening the target certainly isn’t in keeping with the spirit of the Paris agreement, but pulling out would be a direct assault on that agreement," said Elliot Diringer, who represented the U.S. in other climate change negotiations under former President Bill Clinton and is now executive vice president of the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions.The Paris accord, signed by more than 190 countries, is one of former President Barack Obama’s signature achievements on climate change. He personally lobbied a reluctant China to sign, paving the way for other nations to follow, and put in place an array of regulations and policies to help the U.S. to meet its commitment under the pact.Climate Change Pact That Made History Now Faces Trump: QuickTakeSince taking office, Trump has reversed or discarded many of those measures. He prodded the Environmental Protection Agency to dismantle the Clean Power Plan that slashed carbon dioxide emissions from generating electricity and repealed his predecessor’s broad strategy for paring oilfield releases of methane, another potent greenhouse gas.Those changes prompted pointed responses to a U.S. report on its climate progress, filed with the United Nations by the Obama administration. Countries filed questions in February; they were released last week.For instance, China invoked Trump by name as it noted that the U.S. can’t cut greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 -- much less hit its 26 percent target for 2025 -- if the U.S. doesn’t preserve Obama-era policies and take additional steps building on them.Read more: China’s Greenhouse Gases Fall Again Despite Economic Growth"Given that President Trump is not supportive of President Obama’s climate action plan, it is even more challenging to achieve the 17 percent emission reduction in 2020 purely through domestic actions," China said. "What additional measure will the U.S. consider?"China also wanted to know what the U.S. was doing to curb greenhouse gas emissions from electric plants in case the Clean Power Plan is canceled and asked for an assessment of the climate impacts of Trump’s recent policy announcements.The queries from China come as that country drives down its emissions by aggressively supporting renewable energy and turning to natural gas instead of coal to generate electricity.Obama helped recruit China to join the Paris climate agreement after the failed effort to broker a climate deal in Copenhagen in 2009. He saw China as the key to attracting international support for the pact because China and the U.S. are the world’s two biggest polluters, accounting for some two-fifths of greenhouse gas emissions.Prior story: China’s Move with U.S. on Pollution Spurs Climate AgreementIn the run up to Paris, Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping announced ambitious goals to curb greenhouse gases. China pledged its emissions would peak around 2030, the first time it agreed to such a cap, and the U.S. agreed to double the pace of its greenhouse gas cuts.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The Paris accord is not legally binding. Although countries may face international ridicule for failing to live up to individual carbon-cutting pledges, they do not face sanctions under the pact. The U.S. has the freedom to rewrite its commitment or just openly flout it by obliterating the Obama-era policies designed to help meet its goals -- an argument advanced by White House officials who back the pact.Supporters argue that remaining in the deal would maintain goodwill with international trading partners, facilitating exports of U.S. natural gas and clean energy technology. Pulling out throws that into jeopardy, said Dan Bodansky, an expert in international environmental agreements at Arizona State University."We would be subject to much more significant pushback if we pulled out altogether," Bodansky said by phone. "If we move out, we’re really an international pariah for abandoning this agreement that was just adopted by the entire international community a year and a half ago."How Trump Climate Denial May Catalyze the World: QuickTake Q&AThe U.S. still could face some reprisals for a stay-in-but-don’t-comply stance, analysts and some pro-Paris business groups argue, but the risk of such repercussions is higher with a complete retreat."Given the importance of U.S. leadership to the Paris agreement, we think supporters might prefer to accommodate U.S. flexibility," ClearView Energy Partners told clients in a research note.A U.S. withdrawal could make it harder for other countries to justify their continued participation and undermine the global nature of the accord, Bodansky said.By contrast, the biggest risk of the U.S. taking the middle-ground option is that other countries stop aggressively working to pare emissions, Diringer said."There’s a potential corrosive effect on global ambition," he said. “If the world’s largest economy isn’t trying as hard, others may be less willing to make the effort."Accord’s RisksConservatives arguing in favor of a U.S. pullout from Paris say the risks are too great to remain. Under the accord, countries are expected to strengthen their individual goals every five years, and the agreement prods developed countries to "lead," undertaking the "highest possible ambition." Member nations are set to gather again next year to take stock of their collective progress."This whole idea of being binding or non-binding is a distinction without a difference," said Marlo Lewis, a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute. "Trump and whoever comes after Trump will continually be caught in this no man’s land where if you don’t do what Obama promised, you are breaking a promise that America, allegedly, has made to the world."Since Trump is already rolling back domestic climate regulations, "why not go all the way?" Lewis asked. "Why affirm the legitimacy of an agreement -- and why pledge fealty to an agreement -- that basically indicts you for doing what you are going to do?"Remaining a party to the deal while flouting the U.S. commitment "would turn the United States into a professional liar and hypocrite," said Mike McKenna, a strategist advising energy companies. "If we’re not going to participate in honest action, the right answer is, get out. It is weaselly and beneath our national honor to do something like this."
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-24/trump-s-winter-white-house-mar-a-lago-showcased-on-u-s-site
Trump's ‘Winter White House’ Mar-a-Lago Showcased on State Department SiteThe U.S. State Department pulled down a page on an official website that had showcased President Donald Trump’s private club, Mar-a-Lago, after it raised questions about a potential conflict of interest.The posting, dated April 4, called the club the “Winter White House.” It detailed the history of the property “located at the heart of Florida’s Palm Beach community,” including Trump’s purchase of it in 1985. The posting was published on ShareAmerica.gov, a State Department website that promotes the U.S. abroad and also appeared in an abbreviated form on the official site of the U.S. embassy to the U.K.Lawmakers and the government’s top ethics official have criticized Trump for not divesting from his businesses, arguing that his holdings pose conflicts of interest. The Trump Organization doubled the price of memberships at Mar-a-Lago to $200,000 a year in January.In response to the State Department’s posting, Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon, asked in a tweet Monday, “Why are taxpayer $$ promoting the President’s private country club?”By Monday evening, the posting on Mar-a-Lago had been removed and replaced with a statement: “The intention of the article was to inform the public about where the President has been hosting world leaders. We regret any misperception and have removed the post.”Cereal HeiressThe ShareAmerica.gov posting had described the ornate décor of the 114-room mansion, which was built in 1927 by cereal heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post. The State Department said in the posting that when Trump acquired the property, he “bought the decorations and furnishings that Post had collected over the years, preserving Mar-a-Lago’s style and taste."The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter."Why would these officials choose to put out communications praising Mar-a-Lago when it’s so clearly a conflict?" asked John Wonderlich, executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, which promotes government transparency. He said the posting was a "clearly inappropriate" use of government resources. "It goes into the history of Mar-a-Lago, but not the historic presidential conflict of interest."Trump has twice hosted world leaders at the club so far: President Xi Jinping of China and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. In February, Senator Elizabeth Warren called on the Government Accountability Office to review whether national security protocols were being followed at the property after Trump and Abe dealt with a North Korean missile launch in the club’s dining room.In March, congressional Democrats introduced a bill to force disclosure of the names of visitors meeting with Trump and other administration officials at the club and at Trump Tower in New York.The club was a frequent stop for Trump even during his campaign for the White House. He used it to host fundraisers, press conferences and victory rallies for his primary wins. Since his inauguration, he’s visited Mar-a-Lago seven times. According to the State Department posting, by using the club for official business, “Trump is belatedly fulfilling the dream of Mar-a-Lago’s owner and designer.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-05-10/aetna-is-latest-health-insurer-to-quit-obamacare-markets
Aetna Is Latest Health Insurer to Quit Obamacare MarketsAetna Inc. will leave the few remaining states where it had been selling Obamacare plans next year, making it the latest health insurer to pull out of the health law as Republicans attack the program as failing and work to dismantle it.While the move is likely to attract outsize political attention, the decision affects just Delaware and Nebraska. The Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer already said last year it would pull out of 11 states, and in the last month announced plans to exit Iowa and Virginia.“At this time have completely exited the exchanges,” Aetna said in a statement Wednesday. The insurer will also stop selling non-Obamacare individual plans in Delaware and Nebraska.Aetna had indicated it might pull out earlier this month, when Chief Financial Officer Shawn Guertin said the company would take steps to limit its financial losses in the program. Aetna has said it expects to lose more than $200 million on individual health plans this year in the four states where it’s still selling Affordable Care Act plans.Obamacare’s markets are becoming increasingly vulnerable as major health insurers exit, citing financial losses. Some insurers have stayed in, but raised the premiums they charge customers by double-digit percentages.Problems New and OldGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Some of the instability has been going on for years, as fewer people than expected have signed up for plans and many have been sicker than insurers accounted for. Those problems have been further pushed by Republicans, who are considering legislation in Congress to repeal and replace large portions of the health law, and by President Donald Trump, who has threatened to withhold support from key portions of the law that keep the markets functioning.Aetna’s decision could leave Nebraska with just one insurer, Medica. Medica has pulled back as well, saying it may exit the program in Iowa, leaving much of the state without insurance options under Obamacare.Greg Bury, a Medica spokesman, said, “We have not made a decision and are reviewing all of our options.”In Delaware, the Blue Cross and Blue Shield company Highmark would be the lone Obamacare insurer, assuming no other company enters. Highmark didn’t return a request for comment. The state’s insurance regulator blamed “the uncertainty and instability surrounding the future of the Affordable Care Act” for Aetna’s exit.“I would hope that our elected officials in Washington will come up with solutions to guarantee that health insurance in Delaware and elsewhere is both available and affordable,” Insurance Commissioner Trinidad Navarro said in a statement.Aetna may not be entirely out of Obamacare. Nevada has said it was working to convince the insurer to offer individual plans in the state for next year. T.J. Crawford, an Aetna spokesman, said the company had “no comment on a potential Nevada presence at this time.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/trump-aides-in-raging-debate-over-how-quickly-to-move-on-nafta
Trump Rules Out Swift Nafta Exit in Favor of RenegotiationBMO Global's Bell on Nafta, Trump's Tax PlanPresident Donald Trump won’t immediately terminate U.S. participation in the North American Free Trade Agreement, the White House said, after he spoke with the leaders of Mexico and Canada about ways to renegotiate the accord.“Both conversations were pleasant and productive. President Trump agreed not to terminate Nafta at this time and the leaders agreed to proceed swiftly, according to their required internal procedures, to enable the renegotiation of the Nafta deal to the benefit of all three countries,” the White House said in a statement late Wednesday. Mexico’s peso and Canada’s dollar jumped after the White House’s announcement.Trump on the campaign trail last year made a hawkish vow to pull out of Nafta -- which he repeatedly called the “worst trade deal ever” -- if the U.S. didn’t get a better deal through immediate renegotiation. His decision Wednesday marks a continuing softening of his rhetoric on trade, after he recently said he would not declare China a currency manipulator, another campaign promise.Trump said on Twitter on Thursday morning that he received calls from the leaders of Mexico and Canada, Enrique Pena Nieto and Justin Trudeau, “asking to renegotiate NAFTA rather than terminate.” Trump said he agreed, “subject to the fact that if we do not reach a fair deal for all, we will then terminate NAFTA. Relationships are good-deal very possible!”Advisers’ DebateTrump’s top advisers had been embroiled in a debate over how aggressively to proceed on reshaping U.S. participation in Nafta, with hard-liners favoring a threatened withdrawal as soon as this week and others advocating for a more measured approach to reopening negotiations with Canada and Mexico.Some of Trump’s advisers wanted a dramatic move before Trump’s 100th day in office on Saturday to fulfill a key campaign promise, while others said he could let the milestone pass and revisit the issue later through more formal procedures, according to two White House officials who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.The dispute played out in the media Wednesday, with several outlets saying Trump would take the most dramatic available option-- issuing an order declaring his intention to withdraw from the treaty. In this case, threatening to withdraw would have amounted to a formal step that started the process of giving Mexico and Canada six months notice that Trump intended to start negotiating.Exactly who in the White House sparred over the decision wasn’t known, but one of the most prominent anti-trade hard-liners is senior counselor to the president Steve Bannon, and Trump’s decision is sure to be viewed as a defeat for Bannon and his views. Bannon already is seen as being on the outs with Trump over reportedly sparring with Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner.New TalksInstead of announcing his intent to withdraw from the agreement, Trump is asking the two other nations to open talks on ways to make the deal more balanced from the U.S. perspective, which is allowed within the framework of the treaty. His conversations with Pena Nieto and Trudeau took place late Wednesday afternoon, according to the White House.“It is my privilege to bring Nafta up to date through renegotiation,” Trump said in the White House statement. “I believe that the end result will make all three countries stronger and better.”Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told CNBC on Thursday that Mexico and Canada appear to be ready to start renegotiations of the trade pact. One of the issues he said the U.S. wants to target is the rules regarding country of origin of products sold under the deal. He said that Mexico’s trade deficit with China is approximately equal with their trade surplus with the U.S., indicating that products made in China are being sold under Nafta.“The whole idea of a trade deal is to build a fence around participants inside and give them an advantage over the outside,” Ross said. “So there is a conceptual flaw in that -- one of the many conceptual flaws in Nafta.”‘Bring Pressure’Talk that Trump would revisit Nafta on Wednesday had caused Mexico’s peso, the Canadian dollar and shares of companies that rely on cross-border trade to plunge.“Even if he notifies Mexico and the U.S. of his intentions, that doesn’t mean he has to leave,” said Beatriz Leycegui, who was Mexico’s deputy minister on foreign trade between 2006 and 2011. “This is a strategy to bring pressure on Canada and Mexico.”Trump must give Congress 90 days notice that he seeks to renegotiate the accord. Ross said on Tuesday that the administration is busy working with lawmakers to kick start renegotiation of the deal, and that the U.S. was embarking on a more muscular strategy for trade-enforcement.Trump has blamed Nafta for hollowing out America’s manufacturing sector by relocating jobs to lower-cost Mexico -- which his administration initially said was the main target of changes he was seeking to the accord.‘Disastrously Bad’Where Trump stands on Nafta has been hard to discern. After harsh rhetoric during the campaign, he has in recent weeks toned down his criticism, suggesting the relationship with Canada only needs tweaking. This week, he fueled trade tensions by imposing new duties on softwood lumber imports from Canada and vowing to defend U.S. dairy farmers against quotas imposed in Canada.A number of Republicans are strong backers of free trade and have cautioned the administration against walking away from the free-trade deal.“Scrapping Nafta would be a disastrously bad idea,” Republican Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, who was a Trump critic during the campaign, said Wednesday in a statement. “It would hurt American families at the check-out, and it would cripple American producers in the field and the office.”Republican Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona also blasted the idea on Twitter, writing, “Increasing trade barriers with CAN and MEX will result in lost jobs and higher consumer costs in #AZ. Strengthen #NAFTA, don’t abandon it.”Without Nafta -- which reduced or eliminated tariffs on most trade products after taking force in 1994 -- commerce ties between the nations would need to be reset, raising the specter of more frequent trade disputes and higher tariffs.U.S. trade with its Nafta partners has more than tripled since the agreement took effect, rising to $1.1 trillion last year. Canada followed by Mexico ranked as the two biggest markets for U.S. exports, taking in a combined 34 percent of the total in 2016, according to a February paper published by the Congressional Research Service.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/trump-administration-said-to-open-trade-probe-on-aluminum
Trump Administration Opens Trade Investigation on AluminumTrump Administration Said to Open Probe Into AluminumThe Trump administration opened an investigation Wednesday into whether an influx of foreign aluminum is damaging U.S. manufacturers severely enough to threaten national security, beginning a process that could lead to curbs on imports, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said.”Here’s why we did it,” Ross told reporters, “Imports have been flooding into the aluminum industry and the defense angle is that high-purity aluminum is used in the F-35” as well as other military aircraft and vehicles. In the event of a war, domestic manufacturers might be unable to meet the Pentagon’s needs, he said.The investigation mirrors a probe the Commerce Department launched a week earlier focusing on the steel industry, also invoking a seldom-used legal provision: section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. A CNBC report on plans for the investigation sent aluminum stocks surging, with Century Aluminum Co. closing up 8.74 percent and Constellium NV up 2.46 percent.The benchmark global aluminum price has gained 16 percent this year after rising by 12 percent last year, helped by stable demand but also reports that China is stepping up efforts to curb excess aluminum capacity. China is the world’s biggest producer of the metal and has been a target of criticism for creating a glut of aluminum that previously was depressing global prices.The probe Ross announced comes as the U.S. has a standing trade complaint with the World Trade Organization alleging Chinese subsidies to its domestic aluminum producers are hurting prices of the metal. The case, filed by the Obama administration in its final days, also was supported by Canada and Japan, among others.When asked about the WTO complaint, Ross said that it was still in the “exploration” phase and that it may be “subsumed” by the new investigation.One SmelterLast summer, Century Aluminum chief executive officer Mike Bless said China was subsidizing its smelters to an extent that violates World Trade Organization rules, and that something had to give or else they may have to shut down a smelter in Hawesville, Kentucky, that mass produces high purity aluminum used in U.S. fighter jets.Ross said the U.S. currently only has one company that can mass produce aluminum in that quality, although he didn’t identify the Hawesville smelter.If the Commerce Department finds evidence of a national security threat from aluminum imports, the president is authorized to unilaterally “adjust imports.” Only two presidents -- Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford -- have ever granted relief under Section 232, citing national security concerns stemming from the global oil crisis of the 1970s.Until the Trump administration opened the steel investigation last week, the U.S. had launched only two such investigations since the 1970s, and in each the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security declined to recommend action.The presidential memorandum initiating the steel probe also cited aluminum manufacturing as a core industry that is critical to the manufacturing and defense base, along with vehicles, aircraft, shipbuilding and semiconductors.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/talks-to-avert-shutdown-falter-as-trump-digs-in-on-health-funds
Talks to Avert Shutdown Near Finale as Trump Yields on ObamacareOxford Economics' Daco Sees Real Risk of Gov't ShutdownU.S. lawmakers are putting the final touches on a $1.1 trillion spending bill needed to avert a government shutdown, after the White House appeared to satisfy Democrats’ demands that President Donald Trump and Republicans protect a key piece of Obamacare.House Republicans introduced a seven-day stopgap measure late Wednesday aimed at giving both chambers enough time to finish negotiating and pass a broader spending bill that would fund the government through Sept. 30.The move should remove the threat of a shutdown, even as lawmakers continue to haggle over several outstanding issues.The White House on Wednesday afternoon assured lawmakers that the administration would continue to make the Obamacare payments at issue, which are used to subsidize coverage of lower-income Americans, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.“This decision brings us closer to a bipartisan agreement to fund the government and is good news for the American people,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said Wednesday afternoon in a statement. “There are outstanding issues to be resolved, particularly with riders, but this is a positive development for the negotiations.”With government funding set to run out Friday, Republicans and Democrats in Congress have reached agreement on most elements of the sweeping spending bill, which remains under wraps.But Trump criticized Democrats for their stances in the negotiations.Trump Tweet“The Democrats want to shut government if we don’t bail out Puerto Rico and give billions to their insurance companies for OCare failure,” Trump wrote on Twitter Thursday morning, using an abbreviation for Obamacare. Democrats had also pushed for funds to help Puerto Rico cover a shortfall in Medicaid payments.The omnibus is being delayed by fights over other policy areas, including Republican demands for changes to the Dodd-Frank financial law in the bill, a “conscience clause” provision to allow insurers to refuse certain procedures, and language to restrict abortion coverage on Obamacare exchanges, a Democratic aide said.The biggest issue was the billions in cost-sharing payments used to offset health premiums for low-income people. Insurers are threatening to raise premiums if they don’t get the subsidies and could further drop coverage in Obamacare markets.House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said in a statement that negotiators had made progress on the health-care issue, though other disputes remained. She spoke twice on Wednesday with White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, according to a Democratic aide.Clear DeadlockA White House decision to continue the payments may be enough to clear the current deadlock and allow the spending bill to move forward, although it’s unclear how quickly Congress would act.On Thursday, Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, told CNBC that he’s hopeful there will be no shutdown but is unsure of where Democrats stand.“We thought we had a deal Monday” when they took funding the border wall off the table, but since then, Democrats have gone silent, he said. He believes Senate Democrats now are “looking for something they can ask for” but he doesn’t think there is such a sticking point, he said.Holding ‘Hostage’“This administration has made CSR payments in the past, and the only reason some are raising this now is to hold the government hostage and find an excuse to oppose a bipartisan agreement,” he said, referring to the cost-sharing funds.Democrats have expressed concern that the cost-sharing payments could be used as leverage against them in the future or get nixed in the courts and blow up the insurance market. The payments are currently being challenged by House Republicans in a lawsuit questioning their legality.Anthem Inc. threatened to raise rates for its Obamacare plans next year if the U.S. government stops funding subsidies for lower-income customers, raising the ante on the outcome of this debate.Chief Executive Officer Joseph Swedish said on a conference call Wednesday that the insurer could raise its rates by 20 percent if the subsidies aren’t paid to insurers.Pelosi, Mulvaney CallPelosi clashed with Mulvaney Tuesday night over the issue during a telephone call.She reiterated to Mulvaney what has been the House Democratic negotiating position in the talks that CSR payments must be included in the omnibus, said a Democratic aide familiar with the conversation.The aide said Mulvaney indicated that, while the Trump administration had continued the payments, officials hadn’t yet decided whether they would make the May payment.The Democratic aide said Mulvaney made clear that, absent congressional action, the judge’s order ruling the payments illegal would stand and the administration would cease making payments.But a White House official said that Mulvaney didn’t say the administration would end payments.“Instead of working with Democrats to avert another disastrous Republican government shutdown, the Trump administration is cruelly threatening to raise health premiums on millions of families,” Pelosi said in a statement Wednesday, noting that Mulvaney helped push the GOP toward a government shutdown in 2013.The outlines of the broader spending package have been largely to Democrats’ liking, including the GOP decision to omit $18 billion in domestic spending cuts proposed by Trump and Mulvaney.Democrats had offered to increase defense spending if the deal included the CSR funding along with money for Puerto Rico’s Medicaid program and coal miners’ health benefits.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/trump-s-corporate-tax-rewrite-faces-major-obstacle-its-cost
Trump’s Corporate Tax Rewrite Faces Major Obstacle: Its CostTrump's 'Phenomenal' Tax Plan Is Fewer Than 250 WordsPresident Donald Trump offered corporate America a sweeping tax vision whose ultimate promise of lower rates and more global competitiveness depends on one thing: longevity. Given the plan’s uncertain costs, longevity may be one thing the proposal can’t deliver.The tax plan released Wednesday by top economic adviser Gary Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin provided much for multinational corporations to rejoice over -- it calls for slashing the corporate income tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent and applying a one-time, low rate to an estimated $2.6 trillion in offshore profits that have so far avoided U.S. taxes.Steven Mnuchin, right, and Gary Cohn on April 26.Photographer: Andrew Harrer/BloombergThe plan also calls for shifting to a territorial system for corporate taxes in which, going forward, most foreign profits would be exempt from U.S. levies. Currently, the U.S. taxes corporate income no matter where it’s earned.But it’s unclear whether or how the corporate-tax proposals would be paid for; Mnuchin has said economic growth resulting from tax cuts would cover much of the cost, but economists question that assertion. The issue is more than just academic: In order to clear the Senate without any Democratic votes, any tax plan can’t add to the deficit outside a 10-year budget window. So if the legislation isn’t revenue neutral in the long run, its tax cuts would have to be temporary -- set to expire at least within a decade, and perhaps sooner.“For business rate cuts and territoriality to have their full positive effect on growth, businesses will eventually need more certainty that they will remain in place,” said Michael Mundaca, co-leader of the Ernst & Young Americas Tax Center and a former top Treasury tax official. If the measures were only temporary, U.S. corporations might eventually have incentives to return to the current practice of hoarding untaxed profits overseas, he said.‘Harming Growth’Economist Kyle Pomerleau of the conservative Tax Foundation said in a Twitter message Wednesday that there wasn’t enough detail to provide a cost estimate for Trump’s tax plan, while the nonpartisan Center for a Responsible Federal Budget released a rough estimate that it could cost $3 trillion to $7 trillion over the next decade -- potentially “harming economic growth instead of boosting it.”Moving to a territorial system would put the U.S. on even footing with other developed nations, which don’t tax corporate income offshore. It would also end the so-called “lockout” effect, under which companies hold billions of dollars in earnings abroad to avoid U.S. taxes. Currently, companies can defer taxes on their offshore earnings until they bring them to the U.S. And when they do “repatriate” their foreign income, they can claim credits against their U.S. tax bills for any foreign taxes they’ve already paid.Under the deferral system, U.S. companies have stockpiled an estimated $2.6 trillion offshore to avoid paying U.S. taxes on it -- though Trump has said repeatedly that he thinks the amount is higher. The outline that the administration released Wednesday didn’t specify a tax rate that would be applied to those offshore earnings, but called it a one-time rate that Mnuchin said would be “very competitive.”During the campaign, Trump had proposed a 10 percent tax. At that rate, a repatriation tax would raise about $147.8 billion over a decade -- assuming that companies were allowed to pay over time -- according to an estimate made by the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, a Washington policy group.2004 HolidayUnder a voluntary repatriation in 2004, 843 companies chose to bring back $312 billion, which they spent mostly on dividends and share buybacks, not on new investments or hiring, as Trump has said he wants to promote.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.“If this is only a temporary cut and we’re going to revert back to the old system in 10 years, do you as a company really want to invest in the U.S.?” asked David Sites, an international tax services partner at accounting firm Grant Thornton LLP. Longer term, Sites said, for companies to make the “structural shifts” that Trump calls for, “they have to know that 10 years from now, we’re not going to be back in the same situation.”Likewise, Trump’s call for a 15 percent tax rate and the territorial approach may help deter U.S. companies from shifting their profit overseas -- and from moving their tax addresses to low-tax countries like Ireland -- but only if the rate lasts more than a decade, Mundaca said.M&A UptickRepublican congressional leaders greeted the White House tax announcement coolly, with an emailed statement that said the bullet-points would serve as “critical guideposts” in what’s expected to be a months-long effort to overhaul the U.S. tax code.Henrietta Treyz, a managing partner and director of economic policy at Veda Partners, called Trump’s corporate tax plan “a shot for the moon” that would face fierce opposition.In the near-term, repatriation would likely spark a fresh wave of mergers and acquisitions, according to Rose Williams, a principal at Ernst & Young focused on the tax implications of deal-making. “There will be more cash on hand for transactions -- you’ll see an uptick in M&A,” she said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/yellen-may-see-inflation-risk-in-deficit-busting-trump-tax-cuts
Yellen May See Inflation Risk in Deficit-Busting Trump Tax CutsTrump's 'Phenomenal' Tax Plan Is Fewer Than 250 WordsWhat President Donald Trump giveth to the economy with massive tax cuts, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen may be tempted to taketh away with higher interest rates.With the economy already near maximum employment, the central bank is inclined to use tighter credit to keep the economy from overheating as taxes are reduced and budget deficits increase.Fed officials, who have penciled in two more interest rate increases this year and three next, have said they see possible fiscal stimulus as an upside risk to the economy. That risk is only magnified if Trump relies on more government debt, rather than offsetting tax code changes, to finance his cuts, as administration officials have indicated he might.Trump’s proposal, an outline of which was announced Wednesday by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and top White House economic adviser Gary Cohn, potentially puts the administration on a collision course with Fed officials who have almost reached their economic goals and are in the early stages of pulling up ultra-low borrowing costs.“The biggest tax cut in history has monetary policy implications,” said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey, alluding to Mnuchin’s description of the plan. “If the package looks like it will increase the deficit, that will be an argument for more tightening, not less.”Fed policy makers would have welcomed fiscal stimulus earlier in the expansion that began in mid-2009, when unemployment was still elevated and inflation was well below their 2 percent target. But now, with the jobless rate at almost a 10-year low and price pressures starting to build, they don’t see a need for a short-term prod from the federal government.Administration officials have said the president wants to chop the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent and to levy a 10 percent tax rate on cash that companies have stockpiled overseas. He also intends to slash individual income taxes, reducing the number of tax brackets to three from seven.Inflation RisksHow the package is financed is important for the Fed. If a middle-income tax cut, say, is paired with limits on how much Americans can deduct from their obligations, then the immediate impact on demand and the economy is limited. If it’s not, it’s more likely to give a short-term boost to growth that could lead to a Fed response.Trump’s budget director Mick Mulvaney said last week that the administration’s focus is on promoting economic growth, not on controlling budget deficits.“Deficits are not driving the discussion,” Mulvaney, who is director of the Office of Management and Budget, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on April 21. “Deficits are certainly part of the discussion. But we’re not starting off saying, ‘How do we do something that’s deficit-neutral?’ We’re starting off saying, ‘How do we get economic growth?’”Mnuchin has insisted that the tax cuts would be fully paid for. But here’s the catch: Most of that financing would come from an anticipated rise in economic growth -- and the impact that would have on government revenues -- and probably not from such changes in the tax code as the elimination of deductions. Mnuchin sees growth accelerating to 3 percent or more from the 2.1 percent it’s averaged during the eight-year economic expansion.Skeptical RepublicansEven some Republican economists are skeptical of that claim. Donald Marron, who served on former President George W. Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers, said the administration’s estimate of the favorable feedback effects from lower taxes was “surprisingly large,” although he cautioned he hadn’t seen all the details of the plan.Yellen told lawmakers in February that the central bank wouldn’t necessarily respond to a tax cut package with stepped-up increases in interest rates.“Only if we think that it is demand-based and threatens our inflation objective,” would the Fed react with a tightening of monetary policy, she said.The trouble is that a big deficit-financed package increases the chances of a potentially inflationary spurt in demand, said David Hensley, director of global economics for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.Of course, it’s far from a lock that Trump’s plans will get through Congress, where deficit hawks and budget procedures could lead to a significant scaling back of the president’s proposals.“The Republicans aren’t really unified behind a big fiscal stimulus,” Hensley said. What’s likely to emerge is a smaller package that lifts gross domestic product growth by about a quarter percentage point in both 2018 and 2019, he said.Delicate PositionFed staffers seem to more or less agree. In December, they lifted their forecast for GDP over the next few years “slightly” to take account of a more expansionary fiscal policy, according to the minutes of that month’s policy-making meeting. The staff saw the stimulative effects of a changed budget stance “substantially counter-balanced” by higher interest rates and a stronger dollar.Yellen and the Fed are in a delicate position. She doesn’t want to be seen as an opponent of the president and his plans. But she also wants to avoid a big rise in inflation that would damage the economy and tarnish the central bank’s credibility.“We would like to see fast growth, but we do have to control price inflation,” Yellen, whose term as chair expires early next year, told the House Financial Services Committee on Feb. 15. Trump, who has said he likes low interest rates, indicated earlier this month he’s open to renominating Yellen.The composition of any tax reform plan also matters for the Fed. If the program induces companies to spend more on factories and equipment and in the process lifts productivity, officials have indicated that would be good news for the economy and the central bank. Why? Because in that case the faster growth probably would not spur higher inflation.It still might eventually lead to higher interest rates, however. Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer estimated last year that a tax cut on the order of 1 percent of GDP would lift the equilibrium interest rate for the economy by about 40 basis points.Fed officials have suggested that that rate -- which neither stimulates or slows growth -- is currently close to two percent. They see it ultimately rising to 3 percent. Their rate target range now stands at 0.75 percent to 1 percent.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/mnuchin-takes-crash-course-navigating-washington-with-tax-deal
Mnuchin Takes Crash-Course Navigating Washington With Tax DealTrump's 'Phenomenal' Tax Plan Is Fewer Than 250 WordsSteven Mnuchin quips that he uses super powers to avoid breaching the debt ceiling, has speed-dated dozens of fellow finance ministers fretting about the Trump administration’s protectionist tilt, and has received a Ph.D. in sanctions during his first 2 1/2 months as U.S. Treasury secretary.That may have been the easy part.Now, the former Hollywood financier and regional banker is being thrust into the spotlight to accomplish what no one has managed since Ronald Reagan was president: overhauling the tax system. A political newbie with no experience in the legislative process, Mnuchin needs to unite lawmakers behind plans for deep tax reductions for a chance at his ambition of being remembered for firing up the economy.“This is gonna be the biggest tax cut and the largest tax reform in the history of our country and we are committed to seeing this through,” Mnuchin said Wednesday before revealing the broad principles of a plan the White House wants enacted this year.At a White House briefing, Mnuchin, alongside White House economic adviser Gary Cohn, failed to produce any legislative text to build on, but did provide a list of goals for reform. The main thrust involves tax cuts for businesses and individuals, and a simpler process for filers, as part of plan that depends on the compounding effect of economic growth to make up for lost revenue.Read more: Trump’s ‘biggest tax cut’ for individuals and businessesMnuchin and Cohn, who briefed key Republicans late Tuesday, pulled together the 12-point outline after President Donald Trump surprised administration officials on Friday by saying in a media interview that a plan would be unveiled in five days.The pair presented a one-page document with details on reducing the number of tax brackets for individuals, cutting the tax on corporations to 15 percent from 35 percent and imposing a one-time tax on about $2.6 trillion in earnings that American firms have parked overseas.Yet they didn’t offer much substance to a strategy that the administration had been trumpeting, with Cohn calling basic questions on repatriation of overseas tax revenue “micro-details” that the administration isn’t yet prepared to answer.Investors were underwhelmed by the tax plan announcement. The S&P 500 Index climbed above its closing record as Mnuchin outlined the plan, but later gave up half of the advances. The dollar pared its rise and Treasuries extended gains in the immediate aftermath of the presentation.In Congress, Republicans and Democrats had a subdued reaction, saying they will wait for more details from the administration before reaching any conclusions about Trump’s plan. Coordination between the White House and Republicans in Congress about tax policy has been fractious, with House and Senate members complaining that they are routinely surprised by announcements.Tax PackgeLawmakers on both sides said they were withholding support or opposition until more specifics emerge.“It’s tough to call this new proposal from the Trump administration a plan given its lack of detail, but what’s clear is that it will explode the national debt and make it impossible for our country to invest in our future,” said John Yarmuth, a Kentucky Democrat and ranking member of the House Budget Committee.John Cornyn, a Republican Senator from Texas, said he wants to wait to study the whole tax package: “I like low tax rates but I don’t know how we pay for it. That’s the question, and what the other provisions are going to be.”Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Trump’s unscripted leadership style may be one of the biggest obstacles for Mnuchin, who has taken a more measured approach in public appearances. The 54-year-old Treasury chief spent the past few weeks laying the groundwork for the administration’s tax policy, including discussing the proposals in an interview with International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde at the fund’s spring meetings this month.Mnuchin may have a hard time managing Trump’s expectations. The Treasury secretary has said he wants his legacy to be that of driving economic growth, and he’s regularly reminded of his mandate: A framed copy of a newspaper article announcing him as Trump’s choice as Treasury chief hangs on his office wall in the Treasury Department, with a signed note to “Steve” -- that mentions “5% GDP.”It won’t be an easy task: A government report due out Friday is expected to show gross domestic product expanded 1 percent in the first quarter.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/trump-s-tax-plan-pitches-rate-cuts-for-all-with-scant-detail
Trump’s ‘Massive’ Tax Plan: One Page, Many Unanswered QuestionsCohn Unveils 'One of Biggest Tax Cuts' in U.S. HistoryThe “phenomenal” tax plan that President Donald Trump promised 11 weeks ago appeared at a White House briefing Wednesday: It was a one-page list of bullet-points that amounted to fewer than 250 words.The document was largely devoid of detail, including on whether the proposed cuts for businesses and individuals would increase the federal deficit. The answer to that question may determine whether Trump’s recommended 15 percent corporate tax rate -- a huge cut from the current 35 percent -- would be permanent or temporary.The points that the tax outline did include -- calls for slashing business taxes, eliminating the alternative minimum tax and the estate tax, cutting individual income-tax rates and repealing an investment-income tax for high earners -- amount to a conservative wish-list from the past several years. Separately, any one of them could provoke a titanic fight.But the most immediate controversy is likely to focus on cost. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget released a rough analysis saying the plan could cost $3 trillion to $7 trillion over the next decade -- potentially “harming economic growth instead of boosting it.”The non-partisan research group determined that Trump’s corporate tax cut would cost $2.2 trillion, while his other cuts for other businesses would amount to $1.5 trillion. Doubling the standard deduction, which would help lower- and middle-class taxpayers, would cost roughly $1.5 trillion, the CRFB said, while repealing the estate tax, which would benefit wealthy families, would cost $200 billion.White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney dismissed cost estimates of the plan on CNBC Thursday saying: “There’s no way to score what we put out yesterday.” He added: “This was general principles, what’s important to us” and a package designed to get the U.S. economy to 3 percent growth.Rapid GrowthTreasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said during a White House briefing to roll out the plan Wednesday that it would lead to rapid economic growth, helping to cover the cost of the cuts -- but many tax experts disagree. “No tax cut has ever been self-financing,” wrote Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, in an online post Wednesday.Other tax experts who would normally jump to analyze the plan were foiled by the scant specifics. “Sorry, friends. We cannot model this. Definitely not enough detail,” Kyle Pomerleau, director of federal projects for the Tax Foundation, said in a Twitter message. Len Burman, a fellow at the Urban Institute, was more pointed: “First draft of Reagan tax reform: three-volume 500+ page treatise. First draft of Trump: bullet points.”If the one-page outline seemed hastily assembled, it was. Some Treasury officials found out that a plan would be made public Wednesday only after Trump announced his intentions last Friday, promising “massive” tax cuts. The Treasury staffers and counterparts from the White House then rushed to prepare a presentation with enough viable talking points to satisfy Trump’s expectations, while keeping it open-ended enough to leave room for further consideration, said a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named because the discussions were private.Family of FourMore than 100 Treasury staff members are working on the tax plan, Mnuchin said. Yet, as he and Trump’s top economic adviser, Gary Cohn, made clear Wednesday, much work remains.Asked how Trump’s plan would affect a family of four making $60,000 a year, Cohn said: “It’s going to be a tax cut.” Pressed for specifics, he said: “We will let you know the specific details at the appropriate moment.”Cohn Unveils ’One of Biggest Tax Cuts’ in History(Source: Bloomberg)In general, for individual income taxes, the plan calls for reducing the current seven tax rates to just three: 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent -- but it doesn’t include the income thresholds associated with those rates. That makes it impossible to determine the revenue cost of the changes. “We are moving as quickly as we can,” Mnuchin said.U.S. stocks, which have hit record highs since November partly due to the expectation of business-friendly tax changes, reversed course and erased daily gains on Wednesday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index halted a two-day rally.‘Critical Guideposts’Republican congressional leaders greeted the announcement coolly, with an emailed statement that said the bullet-points would serve as “critical guideposts” in what’s expected to be a months-long effort to overhaul the U.S. tax code.Whether the eventual legislation aims for a deficit-neutral tax plan -- one that balances its cuts with new revenue -- will be a major question. Trump’s list of tax principles was immediately assailed by Democrats, who say it would blow out the federal deficit.“It’s clearly fiscally reckless and it’s a massive tax cut for the richest,” said Chuck Marr, the director of federal tax policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington policy group that focuses on measures to fight poverty. He called Mnuchin’s suggestion that growth would pay for the tax cuts “pure fantasyland.”“The claim that his multitrillion-dollar tax cut will pay for itself is as incredible as the claim that Mexico will pay for his multibillion-dollar border wall,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, the leading Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy subcommittee. Before the announcement, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said his party would oppose any plan that provided tax breaks for the highest earners.Trump and others have pitched the plan as a middle-class tax cut -- and it would aid lower- and middle-class families by cutting individual tax rates and doubling the standard deduction.Estate TaxBut it also calls for eliminating the estate tax, which currently applies only to estates valued at more than $5.49 million for singles or $10.98 million for married couples. And it would repeal a 3.8 percent net investment income tax that applies to individuals with incomes above $200,000 a year. Cutting the top individual tax rate and setting the top rate for partnerships and other so-called “pass-through” businesses would also benefit high-income taxpayers. Mnuchin said the White House aims to offset any reduction in high earners’ tax rates by “significant reduction of deductions.”“If the president’s plan is to give a massive tax break to the very wealthy in this country -- a plan that will mostly benefit people and businesses like President Trump’s -- that won’t pass muster with we Democrats,” Schumer said Wednesday morning on the Senate floor.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Without Democratic help, Republicans would have to seek a simple-majority vote on the eventual legislation -- a procedure that would prevent any of the measure’s provisions from adding to the deficit outside the normal 10-year federal-budgeting window. Economists have said the sorts of cuts Trump wants would do just that. If so, the cuts would have to be set to expire -- perhaps within three years, based on a finding by the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.‘An Underperformance’Settling for temporary tax cuts instead of lasting changes would be “an underperformance” from House Republicans, said Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican and member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, was cautious in his remarks.“I like low tax rates, but I don’t know how we pay for it,” he said. “That’s the question -- and what the other provisions are going to be.”The plan that Mnuchin and Cohn unveiled Wednesday does allude to one major revenue-raiser: It would scrap the federal-income tax deduction that individuals can claim for the state and local taxes they’ve paid. Repealing that deduction would be worth as much as $1.3 trillion over the next decade, based on an analysis by the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, a Washington policy group.The deduction mostly benefits high earners in high-tax states that tend to vote Democratic; the largest beneficiaries are California, New York and New Jersey -- all relatively high-tax “blue” states. Conservatives favor eliminating the deduction, which they’ve called a federal subsidy for high taxes at the state and local levels.Trump had been silent on the issue until Wednesday. His support was already stirring some dissent in his own party, however. Representative Leonard Lance, a New Jersey Republican, had praise for portions of Trump’s plan, but said he’ll oppose the state-and-local deduction.“I will be a leading voice in negotiations for maintaining that deduction,” he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/anti-obama-legal-tactics-come-back-to-haunt-trump-on-immigration
Anti-Obama Legal Tactics Come Back to Haunt Trump on ImmigrationThe legal tactics conservatives used against Barack Obama are coming back to haunt Donald Trump.In winning court orders to halt President Trump’s travel ban and his crackdown on so-called sanctuary cities, opponents happily borrowed from the playbook that years earlier helped undercut President Obama’s health-care and immigration policies.The latest ruling, issued Tuesday by a federal judge in San Francisco, blocks the new administration from threatening to revoke funds from cities that don’t cooperate with federal efforts to deport undocumented immigrants.The ruling relied on a section in the Supreme Court’s 2012 Obamacare decision that dealt a blow to the health-care law. The high court said the law unconstitutionally coerced states into expanding their Medicaid programs by threatening to strip them of trillions of dollars -- or, in the words of Chief Justice John Roberts, by putting "a gun to the head."U.S. District Judge William Orrick said the Trump administration likewise went too far by saying it might deny hundreds of millions of dollars in federal grants to San Francisco and two Northern California counties."States must have a ‘legitimate choice whether to accept the federal conditions in exchange for federal funds,’” Orrick wrote, quoting from Roberts’s opinion. The health-care ruling let states opt out of Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, something 19 of them decided to do.QuickTake Scorecard: Legal Issues in the Trump Travel Ban FightSome conservatives hailed the sanctuary-city ruling and its embrace of federalism principles they have long advocated. Orrick pointed to the Constitution’s Tenth Amendment, a favorite among legal scholars who favor limits on federal power."Some conservative Republicans may not like the outcome of this specific case," Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University, wrote on the Volokh Conspiracy blog. "But they will have reason to celebrate it the next time a liberal Democratic president tries a similar move."Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, a Republican, says he’s happy to see the other side taking up federalism arguments. "I think it’s good that maybe the Republican AGs and Texas AGs can wake people up to Tenth Amendment arguments, because I think they’re legit," he said.In a tweet, Trump called the ruling "ridiculous" and vowed to take the case to the Supreme Court, where his appointment of Justice Neil Gorsuch has restored the court’s Republican-appointed majority.Still, the odds may be against Trump. The other four Republican appointees -- Roberts, Clarence Thomas, Anthony Kennedy and Samuel Alito -- all had said Obamacare’s Medicaid rules were unconstitutional. Joining them were Democratic appointees Stephen Breyer and Elena Kagan.A Single JudgeLiberals are also mimicking conservatives by asking a single federal judge to issue a nationwide order against the administration.That’s exactly what conservative states did two years ago when they asked a federal judge in Brownsville, Texas, to block Obama’s plan to defer deportation for 4 million undocumented immigrants. The judge, Andrew Hanen, did just that, issuing a nationwide order that ultimately was upheld by an evenly split Supreme Court.The Obama administration decried the reach of Hanen’s order, calling it "drastically overbroad" in a 2015 court filing.Now it’s conservatives who are protesting use of the tactic. When a federal judge in Hawaii said last month that Trump couldn’t block travel from a group of predominantly Muslim countries, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said he was "amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific" could block the president’s policy.The administration expressed similar frustration after Tuesday’s ruling. "Once again, a single district judge -- this time in San Francisco -- has ignored federal immigration law to set a new immigration policy for the entire country," the White House said in a statement.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/u-s-commander-for-korea-warns-kim-regime-s-nuclear-threat-grows-j1z1s2s4
U.S. Pushes Sanctions, Diplomacy as North Korea Threat GrowsHow China and the U.S. Could Deal With North KoreaU.S. national security leaders emphasized economic sanctions and diplomacy to persuade North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs, even as the Pentagon ramps up its military presence in the region with an aircraft carrier battle group and submarine.“North Korea’s pursuit of nuclear weapons is an urgent national security threat and top foreign policy priority,” according to a joint statement Wednesday by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Defense Secretary James Mattis and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats. “The United States seeks stability and the peaceful denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. We remain open to negotiations towards that goal.”The statement followed warnings by the Pentagon’s top commander in the Pacific that Pyongyang is making steady progress toward developing ballistic missiles that can hit the U.S. Kim Jong Un’s regime is testing those missiles and nuclear devices with growing frequency and aggressiveness, Admiral Harry Harris said in testimony Wednesday before the House Armed Services Committee.“The words and actions of North Korea threaten the U.S. homeland and that of our allies in South Korea and Japan,” Harris said in his prepared testimony. The U.S. “must be prepared to fight” on short notice, he said.North Korea is high on the Trump administration’s agenda this week and has been a key topic of discussion between the president and Chinese leader Xi Jinping this month. Following Harris’s testimony on Wednesday, President Donald Trump stopped by a White House briefing to which the entire Senate was invited. While Trump has urged China to help rein in the North Korean regime, he’s vowed that the U.S. would stop the country’s weapons program with or without Beijing’s help.Lawmakers’ Reaction"The military is obviously planning for a number of contingencies, a number of options, as well they should, running the full range from a more minimal military action to a far more significant military action,” Republican Senator Ted Cruz, of Texas, said after the White House briefing. “It is the hope of the administration, the hope of Congress, that military action does not prove necessary, that economic and diplomatic pressure will cause a change in behavior of the regime.”Democratic Senator Chris Coons, of Delaware, called the White House briefing “sobering,” adding that the North Korean threat “should be the top priority of the administration.”Senator Cory Gardner, a Colorado Republican, told reporters a military strike should be well down the administration’s list of alternatives.“There’re so many options that we need to be taking that are a long ways away from a strike,” he said, adding that diplomatic steps should include “secondary sanctions on Chinese individuals, entities and companies that are doing business with the North Korean regime.”The U.S. was working with allies in Asia to further isolate North Korea economically and block imports used in its nuclear program, according to a Trump administration official who briefed reporters Wednesday. Many components of military equipment come from outside the country, and even the tires on vehicles in North Korea’s military parades are imported, according to the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.New LegislationHouse Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce said that Congress would pursue legislation to crack down on financial institutions that have ties to the North Korean government.“There is additional legislation which we are going to move very quickly that will also choke off some of the hard currency that this regime uses for its nuclear program," the California Republican said after attending a separate administration briefing on North Korea for House members.But Representative Brad Sherman, a Democrat from California who serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the Trump administration wasn’t applying enough pressure on China to use its influence to rein in North Korea.“What was lost in the discussion is that they are unwilling to do anything that would put real pressure or China or use our ability to impose tariffs,” Sherman told reporters Wednesday. “Because these are things that Wall Street would reject.”Tillerson is heading to New York on Friday to chair a session on North Korea at the United Nations Security Council.Read how Trump’s ‘Armada’ can’t knock down Kim’s missilesWhile the joint statement emphasized diplomacy, the U.S. continued to move a battle group led by the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier toward the region. At the same time, the USS Michigan, a nuclear-powered submarine capable of carrying 154 Tomahawks, arrived at the South Korean port of Busan this week. The move was was described by the Pentagon, which typically doesn’t discuss submarine movements, as part of a routine patrol.Pressed by lawmakers, Harris wouldn’t discuss publicly scenarios for a pre-emptive strike against North Korea, though he did address the risk that U.S. action could be met by a response that would kill many South Koreans, Japanese and U.S. troops in the region.“A lot more Koreans and Japanese and Americans die” if Kim’s regime reaches its nuclear arms goals, Harris said.China has also sought to calm tensions on the Korean Peninsula by emphasizing diplomacy. Speaking by phone with Trump on Monday, Xi urged all parties to avoid actions that might make the situation worse, and to work within the framework of UN Security Council resolutions, according to state broadcaster China Central Television.The Global Times, a Chinese Communist Party-affiliated newspaper known for its nationalist views, said North Korea stands to lose the most in a conflict.“The game of chicken between Washington and Pyongyang has come to a breaking point,” the newspaper wrote in an editorial published Tuesday.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Amid the heightened tensions, U.S. forces have begun installing a more advanced system for tracking and intercepting ballistic missiles than South Korea’s current network of shorter-range Patriot batteries can hit. The Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, known as Thaad, should be operational by the end of the year, according to South Korea’s defense ministry. American forces are working with Korea to complete the deployment “as soon as feasible,” the U.S. Defense Department said in an emailed statement.Chinese DrillsThaad has angered China, which is concerned the system could be used to spy on its own facilities. When asked about possible Chinese responses at a Beijing briefing Thursday, Defense Ministry spokesman Senior Colonel Yang Yujun cited plans to test new weapons at an upcoming military exercise.In his testimony, Harris also endorsed Trump administration statements that the U.S. goal wasn’t to topple Kim’s regime. “We want to bring Kim Jong Un to his senses, not to his knees,” he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-26/mnuchin-trump-has-no-intention-of-releasing-tax-returns
Mnuchin Says Trump Has ‘No Intention’ of Releasing His Tax ReturnsWashington (AP) -- President Donald Trump "has no intention" of releasing his tax returns to the public, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said Wednesday, asserting Americans have "plenty of information" about the president's financial matters.For decades, presidents have released their tax returns. But Trump has so far refused, saying that he would share the tax documents only after the Internal Revenue Service completes an "audit" of them.He's never disclosed proof of an audit and tax lawyers say there's nothing preventing him from releasing his returns if he's under one.Trump said before he launched his campaign that he'd release them if he ever ran for office."If I decide to run for office, I'll produce my tax returns, absolutely," he told an Irish television station in2014. "And I would love to do that."Mnuchin appeared to close the door completely Wednesday."The president has no intention. The president has released plenty of information and I think has given more financial disclosure than anybody else. I think the American population has plenty of information," he said, inaccurately characterizing the president's disclosures.The comment came as the secretary briefed reporters on the president's new proposal to overhaul taxes. Democrats have sought to use the tax debate to pressure Trump to release his returns, arguing the information is necessary to evaluate how Trump's tax proposals would affect his personal wealth and his business' bottom line.Mnuchin declined to comment on how Trump would benefit from his proposals. He and other administration officials left the room as reporters shouted questions about how the plan would affect the Trump family.Trump, a billionaire, owns a global real estate, marketing and property management company, which at the start of his presidency he placed in a trust that he can revoke at any time. His daughter and son-in-law, White House advisers, are also holding onto significant business assets. And Trump's adult sons run his Trump Organization.Trump officials have offered varying explanations for why the president does not disclosure his returns.White House senior counselor Kellyanne Conway said in a television interview in January that the fact that he won the election without putting out the information shows that "people didn't care" about it.Trump's sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr. have made similar points in various interviews, though recent polling suggests otherwise.There's evidence the president has been thinking about the issue in recent weeks. He asked his friend and Las Vegas business partner Phil Ruffin, a fellow billionaire, whether he should put out the returns, Ruffin said."I advised him not to," Ruffin said. "It's a waste of time, and he'll spend years explaining them and never get to accomplishing any of his goals."Ruffin said he told the president that Democrats would hire "armies of accountants" to pore over the documents and "make an issue out of any and everything."Even with Mnuchin's seemingly definitive answer, the issue of Trump's tax returns isn't likely to go away. Democrats have threatened to hold up his tax proposals until they see the returns.Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden, D-Ore., called Trump's tax plan "unprincipled" — and one that "will result in cuts for the one percent, conflicts for the president, crippling debt for America and crumbs for the working people."Democrats also have been pushing for a vote on a bill that would require the president and all major-party nominees to publicly disclose their previous three years of tax returns with the Office of Government Ethics or the Federal Election Commission.On Wednesday, Democratic members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform sent a letter to Chairman Jason Chaffetz requesting that he allow a vote on the Presidential Tax Transparency Act."As Members of Congress, we have the ability and duty to legislate in order to promote government transparency, combat conflicts of interest, and ensure compliance with the Constitution," they wrote.Sen. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland also slammed Trump's tax plan as "a half-baked collection of ideas that add up to a huge giveaway to Donald Trump and his rich friends.""If your last name is Trump," he added, "this plan is great for your bottom line."
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/democrats-hit-gop-plan-to-exempt-itself-from-part-of-health-bill
Democrats Hit Republican Plan to Exempt Lawmakers From Part of Health BillHouse Republicans trying to craft a health bill compromise want to give states new flexibility to tinker with coverage and how premiums are structured, but a special exemption would treat insurance for members of Congress and their staff differently.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said the GOP’s choice to treat Capitol Hill differently is a "monstrous immorality.""If House Republicans are afraid of Trumpcare for themselves, they have no right to force it on hard-working American families," Pelosi said.Republican Representative Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, the lawmaker behind the provision, said he didn’t intend for that special treatment. His office says he is taking steps to undo it, as Speaker Paul Ryan and his lieutenants consider whether and when to bring the bill to the House floor for a vote.At issue is a section of a newly proposed amendment to the Republican bill that would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing conditions in states that get a waiver, under certain circumstances.The amendment, negotiated by MacArthur and Mark Meadows of North Carolina, prompted the conservative House Freedom Caucus to formally endorse the revised measure. Conservatives are pleased that it would give states more leeway to decide what works best within their borders.That is, except when that greater state control might apply to health coverage for the lawmakers themselves and their staff. States wouldn’t have the additional leeway for some groups of people whose health premiums might otherwise get costlier under the Republican plan -- including lawmakers and their staffs.QuickTake on efforts in Congress to repeal ObamacareObamacare currently requires all members of Congress and their staff who purchase health coverage to do so on the individual market, just like those who enroll in Obamacare. That requirement was adopted to show that elected lawmakers weren’t being given dispensation from something they were requiring of other Americans.Even some House Republicans said Wednesday they didn’t realize that now, under their own Obamacare replacement plan, language to give themselves and their staffers special treatment was being proposed that could exempt them from a state’s waiver."Exemption? I didn’t even know there was one," said Representative Chris Collins of New York."I’m not in Obamacare. I’m not in the exchanges. I’m the spouse on my wife’s policy," he added, when pressed about his opinion of the exemption.Meanwhile, MacArthur on Wednesday tried to distance himself from the exemption.His office released a statement saying, "Congressman MacArthur does not believe members of Congress or their staff should receive special treatment and is working with House leadership to make absolutely clear that members of Congress and staff are subject to the same rules, provisions, and protections as all other Americans."A Republican aide who didn’t want to be identified said the language in question was added in consultation with the Senate Budget Committee to meet the rules for a budget reconciliation bill, but separate legislation will be introduced to fix it.Pelosi and others who oppose the Republican bill weren’t letting up on what they saw as an inconsistency.“The monstrous immorality of Trumpcare is perfectly encapsulated in House Republicans’ plan to exempt their own health coverage from the damage it will do to everyone else," she said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/if-gop-can-t-get-this-lawmaker-obamacare-repeal-may-be-dead
If Republicans Can’t Get This Lawmaker, Obamacare Repeal May Be DeadRepresentative Fred Upton, a Republican from Michigan, listens during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington on Oct. 30, 2013.Representative Fred Upton helped guide dozens of Obamacare repeal measures through the House in recent years, but he has deep reservations about the GOP’s current bill.“I’m not comfortable with it and I told the leadership that,” he said Friday, in a vivid illustration of the continuing obstacles to the GOP effort to resurrect its stalled repeal plan.Until five months ago, Upton, a Michigan Republican, chaired the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over much of health care policy. Now, he’s not ready to support the current bill and said the most recent revisions have made it worse.Skepticism from Upton and other Republican moderates led GOP leaders to abandon an effort to hold a vote on the bill this week. Leaders say they’re still hopeful it can be passed next week.Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and other House leaders downplayed the delay, saying they’d never publicly said there would be a vote this week. "We’ve been making great progress, and when we have the votes we’ll vote on it," he said.The new GOP strategy to replace Obamacare: a QuickTake Q&AHouse Speaker Paul Ryan and other GOP leaders wouldn’t say how many more Republican votes they need to win, although several prior holdouts in the conservative House Freedom Caucus now publicly back the bill.“Right now we know we’re in a stronger position than we were, but we don’t know for sure if we have the votes," said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, who isn’t a member of the caucus.A Bloomberg News count shows at least 16 Republicans oppose the revised measure, not including Upton. The GOP can only afford to lose 22 votes from its side and still guarantee passage.One problem is that the recent changes made to the bill to win over the conservative holdouts have alienated some GOP moderates.Pre-Existing ConditionsUpton, for example, said his main concern is how those revisions affect coverage for people with pre-existing medical conditions.“The issue is potential higher costs to those with pre-existing illnesses," he said. "They’re trying to say that they still maintain access with continuous coverage but the question is what happens on the costs side of the thing.”Under an amendment to the Republican plan, states could let insurers charge older customers more than the original bill allowed -- at least five times more than younger ones, beginning in 2018. States could also allow insurers to charge higher premiums for people with pre-existing conditions who have had a gap in coverage of at least 63 days in the prior year.Upton said he has been talking to Representative Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, the author of the amendment, about making more changes."I’ll go back to the premise that Ryan has, and that is if they have the votes, they’ll move it. So, clearly they don’t have the votes," he said.Many House Republican supporters of the measure insisted Friday that they are just a few votes shy -- and that a vote could come, for real, as early as next week."Oh it’s absolutely not dead -- they are very close," insisted Representative Chris Collins of New York, one of the earliest congressional Trump backers.Democrats have been left out of the process entirely.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi on Friday called the GOP health bill "the zombie" that she says keeps getting worse. She credited mobilization against the bill from outside of Congress for slowing down the Republican effort.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York asked, "How many more times do they need to fail" before working with Democrats on needed fixes to the Affordable Care Act.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/house-does-bare-minimum-to-keep-u-s-government-open-next-week
Congress Does Bare Minimum to Keep Government Open Next WeekCongress Passes Stopgap Spending Bill Averting ShutdownCongress gave itself one more week to agree on a spending bill to fund the U.S. government through September, leading into President Donald Trump’s 100th day in office Saturday by keeping the lights on.The 382-30 House vote Friday was followed quickly by unanimous Senate passage of the stopgap spending bill hours before the shutdown deadline. Trump signed the bill Friday evening, according to a White House official. "We feel very good" that lawmakers will be able to pass a full spending bill next week, White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters earlier in the day.Leaders of both parties say they’re close to agreement on a broader spending plan after Republicans signaled they would accept Democratic demands that the Trump administration promise to continue paying Obamacare subsidies and to drop its bid for immediate funds for a wall on the Mexican border.“You shouldn’t create artificial deadlines,” Alabama Republican Representative Gary Palmer said in support of the short-term measure. "If there are things we need to work through, we need to take the time to work through them.”Vermont Senator Patrick Leahy, the top Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, said both sides have made progress on issues including more funds for the National Institutes of Health, opioid funding for states, Pell college grants and money for transit. But he said the talks remain snagged over Republican demands for policy “riders.”‘Manufactured Crisis’“Let’s not govern by partisan manufactured crisis,” he said on the Senate floor. “Stop posturing,” he added as he called for a speedy resolution on the bill sometime next week."This is no way to govern," Leahy said before the Senate vote.Sixteen House Republicans voted against Friday’s stopgap measure. The short-term fix to ward off a government shutdown -- on a deadline set months ago -- shows the stubborn dysfunction of Congress even with a unified Republican government. House GOP leaders on Thursday abandoned efforts to vote this week on their plan to repeal and replace Obamacare for lack of support in their party. A vote is still possible next week.Among the biggest achievements Trump has highlighted for his first 100 days are executive orders, signing bills to undo last-minute regulations from the Obama administration, and a Supreme Court justice confirmation that required changing Senate rules to push it through.Congress will have just five days starting Monday to finance the government until the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. House leaders plan to release a bill on Monday after negotiations over the weekend, No. 2 House Democrat Steny Hoyer, of Maryland, said Friday.Sticking PointsGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Republicans are seeking provisions that would block the Labor Department’s fiduciary rules governing investment advice to retirees, as well as provisions blocking National Labor Relations Board rules. The NLRB last August imposed liability for labor violations on franchisers for violations by franchisees. These are among the 70 provisions remaining in the bill that Democrats object to, and little progress has been achieved in the last day.Democrats want restrictions on added border security funding to prevent Trump from using the money to deport undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. They also want to limit funding for immigration detention beds. Democrats are seeking at least $500 million in new funds to shore up Puerto Rico’s Medicaid program.Even as lawmakers didn’t finish the larger spending bill, Republicans spent much of the week tinkering with their Obamacare plan, hoping to muster enough support to give Trump a legislative win in his first 100 days. GOP leadership met late into Thursday night and ultimately decided they still didn’t have enough support for a vote this week.Hoyer said he was voting for the one-week spending bridge, H.J. Res 99, but wouldn’t support another one. A day earlier, he had said he would oppose even that measure if Republicans pushed ahead with their Obamacare revamp.While House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, the California Republican, ruled out a Friday or Saturday health-care vote, he left open the possibility to try again next week, when the new shutdown deadline will be hanging over the House.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/tillerson-said-to-seek-9-cut-to-u-s-state-department-workforce
Tillerson Seeking 9% Cut to U.S. State Department Workforce, Sources SayThe State Department plans to cut 2,300 U.S. diplomats and civil servants -- about 9 percent of the Americans in its workforce worldwide -- as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson presses ahead with his task of slashing the agency’s budget, according to people familiar with the matter.The majority of the job cuts, about 1,700, will come through attrition, while the remaining 600 will be done via buyouts, according to the people, who asked not to be identified because the decision hasn’t been publicly announced. William Inglee, a former Lockheed Martin Corp. official and policy adviser in Congress, is overseeing the budget cuts and briefed senior managers on the plan Wednesday, the people said.The personnel cuts, which may be phased in over two years, represent the most concrete step taken by Tillerson as he seeks to reverse the expansion the department saw under former President Barack Obama’s administration and meet President Donald Trump’s demand -- outlined in an executive order signed last month -- to cut spending across federal agencies. A draft budget outline released in March for the year that begins Oct. 1 seeks a 28.5 percent reduction in State Department spending from fiscal 2016.The proposed cuts reflect a belief shared by many conservatives that the State Department and other government agencies have grown too large and drifted away from their core missions. Tillerson was taken aback when he arrived on the job to see how much money the State Department was spending on housing and schooling for the families of diplomats living overseas, according to one person familiar with his thinking.The moves come as Tillerson, who mostly kept out of sight in his first weeks as secretary, is taking on an increasingly visible public role. He traveled to New York on Friday to chair a United Nations Security Council debate on how to curb North Korea’s expanding nuclear weapons program.Read more about Tillerson’s efforts to boost pressure on North KoreaCurrent and former diplomats say they fear that the job cuts will bite into the work of the State Department and undermine the voice of the U.S. overseas.‘Simply Mindless’“Just cutting without deciding what change you want to make is simply mindless,” said Stephen Sestanovich, a professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs who served as U.S. ambassador-at-large for the former Soviet Union.“A new administration is right to look at what Cabinet departments do, but does it want the United States to do less in the world — and if so, exactly what?” he added. “Those are the questions that need to be answered before you make big cuts at State.”The planned jobs cuts come as the State Department is preparing a major reorganization of its work and mission. The rethinking is part of a process of asking if the State Department is “set up to meet the needs of the next two decades” after 16 years focused on counterterrorism following the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, according to R.C. Hammond, Tillerson’s communications adviser.90-Day MarkGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Tillerson will address staff next week to mark the first 90 days since he came into office to tell them his vision for the department, Hammond said. In excerpts of an interview with NPR News airing Friday, Tillerson said the department’s mission is to deliver on Trump’s policies to “to provide the national security needs of the American people and to advance America’s economic interests around the world.”“I think the issue for us is how well we deliver on that mission through all of the various aspects of what the State Department does, from diplomacy to our assistance programs to helping nations that are just emerging to dealing with conflicts,” he said.That reorganization plan will also involve a survey that will be sent next week to all 75,000 or so State Department staff, including foreigners, as well as employees of the U.S. Agency for International Development and diplomats’ family members to determine whether they have the resources they need to do their jobs.“Do you have the tools you need to do your job? If you do, what’s working and if you don’t, what do you think you need?” Hammond said. “And from there you will see what comes back and will make the next decision.”Hiring PaceThe survey, being conducted by consulting company Insigniam, will later select several hundred State Department and U.S. AID staff and diplomats for in-person interviews. Hammond said there wouldn’t be a conflict between cutting spending and the outreach to see if employees have the resources they need.“This is what we work out through the budget process,” Hammond said. “Our plan is to start with priorities and work backwards. You start with the resources you do have and you prioritize your choices.”State Department officials are also seeking to ease concerns about the slow pace of hiring in the department: Almost all Senate-confirmed jobs, including ambassadorships and assistant secretaries, remain unannounced.Policy is being determined by a relatively small group that includes Tillerson, policy planning chief Brian Hook, chief of staff Margaret Peterlin and a few acting assistant secretaries of state at regional bureaus.But the lack of clarity has damaged morale among the department’s rank and file, according to the people. Departments are supposed to be in the thick of planning for the 2018 and even the 2019 budgets, and many of those conversations have been frozen by a lack of clarity.“They’re behind the curve, but they’re not totally off base,” said Richard Boucher, a former assistant secretary of state under secretaries from both parties. “Generally I’d say people don’t have a sense of direction, and the rumors of what the reorganization is going to look like are just rampant and nobody knows if jobs are going to be there and what’s going to happen.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-28/greenspan-says-trump-has-an-arithmetic-problem-with-his-budget
Greenspan Says Trump Has a Math Problem With His BudgetFormer Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan talks about President Trump's proposed tax and spending plans. He speaks to Bloomberg's David Westin on 'Bloomberg Daybreak: Americas.' (Source: Bloomberg)President Donald Trump’s budget numbers don’t add up and his tax and spending plans are likely to lead to bigger deficits and higher interest rates, said former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan.“His arithmetic is the problem,” Greenspan said in a Bloomberg Television interview with David Westin aired on Friday.Trump has said he intends to slash corporate and individual taxes in an effort to make the U.S. more competitive and boost economic growth. The president has also pledged to ramp up military outlays.The trouble, Greenspan said, is that Trump doesn’t seem willing to make the commensurate cuts in federal spending to offset his tax and defense plans. In particular, he said, what’s needed is a reduction in so-called entitlement expenditures on pensions and health care for the elderly.“You’re going to get a very large budget deficit” otherwise, said Greenspan, who now heads his own Washington-based consulting firm. That, in turn, will lead to higher long-term interest rates as investors react to rising inflation, he added.Greenspan did have kind words for Trump’s steps to reduce and remove regulations throughout the economy. That “has been very valuable” and has contributed to the strength of the stock market, he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-28/u-s-economy-expands-at-slowest-pace-in-three-years
U.S. Economy Grew 0.7% in First Quarter, Slowest in Three YearsU.S. Economy Expands at Slowest Pace in Three YearsThe U.S. economy expanded at the slowest pace in three years as weak auto sales and lower home-heating bills dragged down consumer spending, offsetting a pickup in investment led by housing and oil drilling.Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced, rose at a 0.7 percent annualized rate after advancing 2.1 percent in the prior quarter, Commerce Department data showed Friday in Washington. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1 percent gain. Consumer spending, the biggest part of the economy, rose 0.3 percent, the worst performance since 2009.The GDP slowdown owes partly to transitory forces such as warm weather and volatility in inventories, which supports forecasts for a rebound as high confidence among companies and consumers and a solid job market underpin growth. Even so, the weakness at car dealers could weigh on expansion, and further gains in business investment could depend on the extent of policy support such as tax cuts.The most important market news of the day.Get our markets daily newsletter.“There’s no cause for concern,” said Ryan Sweet, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania, citing seasonal-adjustment issues in the data and temporary factors that affected consumer spending. Business investment is “encouraging,” while consumers “had a little bit of a hangover, and they’ll bounce back in second quarter. The key will be wage gains -- we need strong wage-growth support for spending going forward.”The data are unlikely to dissuade Federal Reserve policy makers from raising interest rates in the coming months. Economists were largely expecting a weak growth figure, calling it a blip and not a sign of stagnation.Analysts have pointed to issues with the Commerce Department’s seasonal adjustment of growth data: Since 2000, expansion in the first quarter of each year has averaged 1 percent, compared with 2.2 percent for the rest of each year, according to Wells Fargo Securities.Trump’s TargetThough the first-quarter figure isn’t a verdict on President Donald Trump’s policies, economists are generally skeptical that growth will reach his goal of 3 percent to 4 percent on a sustained basis. Analysts’ estimates indicate just 2.2 percent to 2.3 percent annual growth through 2019, a tad above the average pace during the almost eight-year expansion.During the first quarter, a chief driver of growth was private, fixed nonresidential investment, which contributed 1.12 percentage point to expansion, led by a record increase in mining exploration, shafts and wells, a category that includes oil structures. Residential investment added 0.5 point to growth.The change in inventories, one of the most volatile parts of the GDP calculation, subtracted 0.93 percentage point from growth, following a 1.01 percent gain. Trade, also volatile from quarter to quarter, contributed 0.07 point after a 1.82 point drag in the previous period.Economists’ forecasts for overall growth ranged from zero to 2.2 percent. The GDP estimate is the first of three for the quarter, with the other releases scheduled for May and June when more information becomes available.The 0.3 percent growth in household consumption, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, followed a 3.5 percent jump from October to December. The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey called for 0.9 percent, and purchases added 0.23 percentage point to first-quarter growth.While some of the slowdown may be temporary, inflation is eating into consumers’ wallets. Real disposable personal income rose at a 1 percent pace in the period, the weakest since the fourth quarter of 2013. Even though hiring has been humming along and the jobless rate of 4.5 percent is the lowest in almost a decade, a sustained pickup in wage growth would help boost consumers’ ability to spend.Business InvestmentNonresidential fixed investment, or spending on equipment, structures and intellectual property, increased at a 9.4 percent annualized pace, the fastest since 2013. It grew at a 0.9 percent rate in the previous quarter.Among the details, equipment spending advanced 9.1 percent, a two-year high, while investment in nonresidential structures, including office buildings and factories, surged 22.1 percent after dropping 1.9 percent in the prior quarter.Residential spending increased at a 13.7 percent annualized rate, the most since the second quarter of 2015, compared with the prior quarter’s advance of 9.6 percent.Trade added slightly to growth, as exports increased by more than imports during the quarter.Final sales to private domestic purchasers -- which strip out government agencies, inventories and trade -- rose at a 2.2 percent pace after a 3.4 percent advance.Government spending fared worse, decreasing 1.7 percent and taking away 0.3 percentage point from growth. State and local outlays fell at a 1.6 percent annualized rate, while spending by federal agencies dropped at a 1.9 percent pace.The report also showed price pressures were picking up. The GDP price index rose 2.3 percent in the first quarter. A measure of inflation tied to consumer spending and excluding volatile food and energy costs was up 2 percent, the fastest in four quarters.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/trump-s-wall-may-not-stretch-entire-border-secretary-kelly-says
Trump's Wall May Not Stretch Entire Border, Secretary Kelly SaysDHS Sec. Kelly Says Border Wall Unlikely in Some PlacesThe Trump administration’s signature plan to build a wall along the southern U.S. may not stretch across the entire border with Mexico, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly said.In an interview Thursday with Bloomberg Television, Kelly said there are spots along the border where a wall can’t be built because of the terrain. Still, the administration is committed to building a “physical barrier” as much as possible, he said.But “there’s places probably where we won’t build a wall because it’s across river beds, we can’t dam up the rivers,” Kelly said. Other rough areas includes the canyons of Big Bend National Park. “There are other places where a see-through wall,” or fence, would be sufficient, he said.John Kelly, with Jeff Session, during a tour of the border in Otay Mesa, California on April 21.Photographer: Sandy Huffaker/Getty ImagesPresident Donald Trump campaigned on a vow to build a wall to stop “out of control” immigration and drug flow to the U.S. New funding for the barrier has likely been pushed off until later this year as Congress and the White House negotiate their spending bills for the current and 2018 fiscal year. That prompted Trump this week to say, “Don’t let the fake media tell you that I have changed my position on the WALL. It will get built and help stop drugs, human trafficking etc.”Kelly said he foresees “an increase in physical barrier backed up by the men and women of CBP -- Customs and Border Protection -- and technology.”For a primer on how Mexico could respond to Trump’s border plans, click hereAt the same time, Trump has told him that securing the border doesn’t mean creating “an impregnable wall that cannot be penetrated,” and that the legal movement of people and goods across the border should continue.Kelly said the department doesn’t have specifics yet on the wall’s design nor does it know how much it will cost.In developing national security policy, the president is “very involved” and “listens to his secretaries” and policy advisers, said Kelly, who called himself “an apolitical guy.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-says-good-ties-with-china-more-important-than-taiwan-call
Trump Says Good Ties With China More Important Than Taiwan CallPresident Donald Trump has curtailed Taiwan’s hopes for greater U.S. recognition, saying he would consult with Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping before again talking to Taiwan’s leader.Trump said in an interview with Reuters that having another phone call with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, like their precedent-breaking conversation in December, risked jeopardizing China’s vital cooperation on North Korea. He was responding to Tsai’s remark earlier this week that a second call was possible even though Trump was now in the White House.“My problem is I have established a very good personal relationship with President Xi,” Trump said, praising the Chinese leader’s support on addressing the North Korean nuclear threat. “So, I wouldn’t want to be causing difficulty right now for him. I think he’s doing an amazing job as a leader and I wouldn’t want to do anything that comes in the way of that.“So, I would certainly want to speak to him first,” he said.The remarks are the latest sign Trump is abandoning his combative China rhetoric in favor of a more cooperative approach as he seeks Beijing’s help in pressuring its neighbor and ally. Trump earlier this month withdrew a campaign pledge to label China a currency manipulator after discussing North Korea with Xi in their first summit in Palm Beach, Florida.Taiwan’s President Office said in a statement Friday that Tsai had no plans to repeat her Dec. 2 phone conversation with Trump. “We understand that the United States has priorities in dealing with regional matters,” the office said.‘Back to Normal’The phone call with Tsai was among Trump’s most provocative moves toward China before taking office. Top U.S. officials have for more than four decades avoided direct contact with their Taiwanese counterparts to maintain relations with China, which has regarded the island a breakaway province since their split in 1949.The call seemed to indicate that Trump might support Tsai’s pursuit of greater international recognition for the isolated island of 23.5 million. Trump later reaffirmed his support for the so-called One-China policy in a phone call with Xi, paving the way for their meeting in Florida.“It’s back to normal after taking some interesting initiatives in December,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, who heads Hong Kong Baptist University’s government and international studies department. “Trump is trying to accommodate both sides, more Beijing than Taipei of course, but without fully closing doors on Taiwan.”Managing DisputesCabestan said Trump’s suggestion he might consult with Xi before speaking with Tsai suggested an openness to “co-management” of Taiwan disputes. No U.S. administration had suggested such an approach before.Ruan Zongze, vice president of the China Institute of International Studies in Beijing and a former top diplomat in Washington, said Trump’s remarks were proof Xi’s trip to the U.S. had been “very successful.”Trump’s interview further clouds the prospects for greater U.S. military support for Taiwan, especially as Xi is set to consolidate power at a Communist Party congress later this year. Taiwan, which has for decades relied on American security aid to deter China, plans to include F-35 fighter jets in its first arms request to the Trump administration.Wang Ting-yu, head of the Taiwanese legislature’s Foreign and National Defense Committee, said that Trump’s suggestion he would speak with Xi before Tsai went against the U.S.’s traditional approach on Taiwan.“We would like to send a strong reminder to an old friend that the United States’ own rules say that they cannot discuss issues relating to Taiwan with China first,” Wang said. “They must discuss them with Taiwan first. Those are America’s own rules.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/top-trump-aides-divided-on-paris-climate-pact-as-decision-nears
Top Trump Aides Clash on Legal Risks of Paris Climate AccordTrump's Mysterious Feelings on Global WarmingSenior advisers to Donald Trump were divided over the Paris climate accord in a meeting Thursday, as Cabinet members and staffers considered whether staying in the pact could legally jeopardize the president’s regulatory rollbacks, according to people familiar with the high-level gathering.The split means Trump’s staff could end up giving the president dueling advice, with one camp of advisers urging the U.S. to stay in the treaty and another urging an exit. The White House has said a decision on whether to remain in the pact will be made by the end of next month, when world leaders gather for the Group of Seven summit in Italy.Trump recommitted to that timeline in an interview with Reuters, adding that whatever decision he makes, "we want to be treated fairly." Under the current approach, Trump said, the U.S. has committed to pay "massive amounts of money" into a United Nations fund meant to help developing nations deal with the consequences of climate change, while other countries pay "virtually nothing."The question has divided top administration officials. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has said the U.S. should keep its seat at the table, while Environment Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt wants the U.S. to get out. Energy Secretary Rick Perry says the U.S. should remain in the deal, but renegotiate.All three were in the roughly hour-long meeting at the White House on Thursday, that also included Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; White House advisers Jared Kushner, Steve Bannon and Ivanka Trump; and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, according to administration officials.Under the accord, signed by more than 190 countries, the U.S. set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26 percent by 2025 from 2005 levels. It’s one of former President Barack Obama’s signature achievements on climate change, but Trump vowed on the campaign trail he would seek to end U.S. involvement in it, calling it a bad deal.A draft three-page internal State Department memo circulated in advance of the meeting said the accord imposes few obligations on the U.S., noting that "legal obligations are relatively few and are generally process-oriented."Prior story: State Department Memo Bolsters Case to Stay in Climate PactThat was one area of common ground Thursday, according to people familiar with the meeting, who asked not to be identified because it was an internal discussion. They described an emerging consensus that the current U.S. pledge is not sustainable -- regardless of whether the U.S. formally extricates itself from the accord.The top-level officials also seemed to agree that there is no legal mechanism for the United Nations to punish the U.S. for flouting its commitment.But there are potential domestic legal implications of staying in the deal anyway, representatives from the White House counsel’s office told the group. There is some risk that if the U.S. stays in the agreement and doesn’t take actions to cut emissions, it could surface in legal challenges to Trump’s moves to roll back environmental regulations, they said.Bannon, the White House chief strategist who has argued Trump should fulfill his campaign promise to abandon the accord, pressed Pruitt to explain how efforts to undo Obama’s Clean Power Plan -- another Trump campaign promise -- could be jeopardized by remaining in the deal, according to the people.Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and a special assistant at the White House, was described as outspoken in favor of staying in the pact. Pruitt and Sessions, meanwhile, jointly argued the U.S. has an obligation to honor the commitments it makes to other countries, and if it wouldn’t aim to get to the 26 percent reduction, it should leave.Jeopardize ExportsSupporters of sticking with the accord have argued that U.S. exports, including sales of liquefied natural gas, could be jeopardized if the country ditches the deal. Ahead of the meeting, some Republicans argued that the U.S. should stay in the deal but revise its climate pledge.North Dakota Representative Kevin Cramer, who served as an informal energy adviser to Trump on the campaign, led a letter with eight other Republican lawmakers advising Trump the U.S. can leverage its role to encourage worldwide use of its energy resources and technology."The U.S. should use its seat at the Paris table to defend and promote our commercial interests, including our manufacturing and fossil fuel sectors," they wrote. "Our engagement must prevent the development of harmful policies which undermine economic growth and energy security here and abroad."Companies ranging from oil giants such as BP Plc and Exxon Mobil Corp. to utilities such as Pacific Gas and Electric Co. have also made the argument the U.S. should remain in the pact.But opponents argue that Trump promised to exit, and if the U.S. is abandoning its efforts to cut emissions it should also abandon this pact, too."Those who argue for us to remain in the agreement are essentially arguing for us to become (officially) liars," Mike McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist, said in an email.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-to-expand-offshore-drilling-review-deepwater-horizon-regs
Trump to Expand Offshore Drilling, Review Post-Spill RulesTrump Order Reverses Obama Artic Drilling BanPresident Donald Trump moved to expand offshore oil drilling and to reconsider rules that safeguard the activity -- including mandates designed to prevent a repeat of the Deepwater Horizon disaster.Trump on Friday ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to revise a five-year schedule for auctioning offshore drilling rights with the aim of potentially including territory left out by former President Barack Obama. Trump’s executive order also seeks to reverse a potentially more enduring decision by Obama to indefinitely withdraw most U.S. Arctic waters and some Atlantic Ocean areas from leasing.“Our country is blessed with great natural resources" but too many have been closed to exploration, Trump said, during a signing ceremony in the White House Roosevelt Room. He was joined by Republican lawmakers from oil-producing states, including Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana.Trump said his executive order starts the process of opening new offshore waters to "responsible" oil and gas development, adding: "It’s going to lead to a lot of great wealth for our country and a lot of great jobs."The executive order also instructs Zinke to review a raft of protections governing offshore drilling, including a measure designed to address shortcomings revealed by the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster, triggered when a BP Plc well blew out in the Gulf of Mexico. The resulting explosion killed 11 workers and spewed millions of barrels of crude.That rule review could take years to unfold, even if it results in only modest changes to the regulation of offshore wells. In a White House briefing Thursday, Zinke told reporters it would also take "a couple years" before the government could auction off new drilling rights in Pacific, Atlantic or Arctic waters. Even then, it’s not clear whether oil and natural gas companies would line up to buy them.Important SignalBut energy analysts say Trump’s directive sends an important signal to oil and gas companies that U.S. waters are open for business. The offshore effort follows Trump’s previous moves to reverse a raft of Obama-era regulations limiting the extraction, transportation and use of fossil fuels."It shows the industry the administration is listening," said David Pursell, a managing director at investment bank Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. "The industry ought to feel pretty good given what Trump is doing inside the EPA and with these rules."The well-control rule, estimated to cost the industry $890 million over a decade, requires oil companies to keep a close watch on distant, deep-water drilling operations and conduct more frequent inspections of emergency equipment.Industry lobbyists have focused their complaints on provisions requiring special permission to drill through potentially more treacherous terrain -- after already investing in the territory. Without confidence of getting those approvals, companies may be reluctant to invest in offshore projects where that issue could arise, said Erik Milito, a policy director for the American Petroleum Institute.Prevents MishapsEnvironmentalists say the 2016 rule -- imposed after six years of analysis -- is already working to prevent mishaps offshore.It’s "reducing dangerous offshore events like the Deepwater Horizon tragedy in the Gulf of Mexico," said Lois Epstein, an engineer and Arctic program director with the Wilderness Society. "It only will help unsafe offshore operators if these important protections are changed."Zinke said essential safeguards would not be eroded as part of the broad assessment set to cover regulations "from bow to stern.""We will find ways to look at our regulatory requirements that strengthen our safety and environmental policies," Zinke told reporters. "America leads the world in environmental and safety protections, and I assure you we will continue that mission."Legal ObstaclesThe order prohibits the expansion of marine monuments and seeks to streamline government permitting of the seismic research that energy companies use to hunt out possible oil and gas reserves offshore. Geological contractors have been seeking permits to conduct seismic studies off the U.S. East Coast, updating research last conducted there decades ago.The Trump administration could face major legal obstacles in trying to swiftly sell drilling rights in areas Obama put off limits, much less reversing Obama’s order that indefinitely ruled out the activity in broad swaths of the Arctic and Atlantic.Both would be tough to accomplish, said former offshore regulator Tommy Beaudreau and Jason Bordoff, a former special assistant to Obama. In a paper issued by Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy, they note that the Trump administration can only make broad changes to the five-year leasing plan if it subjects them to extensive environmental scrutiny and public comment. And environmentalists argue it would be unprecedented for any president to rescind a predecessor’s permanent leasing withdrawal -- a move they vow to fight in court.The order does not explicitly compel additional oil and gas lease sales in any specific area, nor will the Trump administration abandon planned auctions of tracts in the Gulf of Mexico and in Alaska’s Cook Inlet. And Zinke said he would ensure local communities have a voice in the process.Local CommunitiesZinke said he would recommend including lease sales for "areas that are acceptable, that have the resources," and where both industry and local communities support drilling.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Oil companies awash in crude from onshore drilling into dense shale formations in Texas, New Mexico and North Dakota may have little appetite for leases in the Atlantic or the Arctic. Those onshore wells generally don’t yield crude for as long as their offshore counterparts, but they also cost much less. In the Arctic, Atlantic and the Pacific Ocean, development costs are high -- as are the risks of drilling a "dry hole.""Even as President Trump opens up drilling almost everywhere, risk-averse companies are looking at the low-hanging fruit," said Phil Flynn, a senior market analyst with the Price Futures Group. “It’s a lot cheaper to ramp up shale production and turn a quick profit without any vision about long-term sustainable off shore projects."Local governments, politicians and activists who banded together to fight off Obama’s initial plans to sell drilling rights in the mid- and south-Atlantic are vowing to do battle again.“Pushing to open the Atlantic to offshore drilling is a slap in the face to towns and cities up and down the coast that have already made clear that they do not want this for their communities,” said Sierra Weaver, a senior attorney with the Southern Environmental Law Center. “Offshore drilling threatens our beautiful beaches and pristine waters and jeopardizes the backbone of our economy -- the southeast’s billion-dollar tourism and recreation industry.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-plan-seen-turning-everyone-and-their-dog-into-an-llc
Trump’s Tax Plan Could Turn ‘Everyone and Their Dog’ Into an LLCU.S. Chamber of Commerce's Harris on Trump Tax PlanThe Trump administration’s proposal to slash the tax rate on partnerships and limited liability companies could set off a stampede of individual taxpayers trying to reclassify themselves as so-called pass-through businesses in order to take advantage of the savings, according to tax experts.Call it the Kansas problem.In 2012, Kansas exempted pass-throughs from state income taxes, a move that was billed as a chance to spur so much business growth and job creation that it would actually raise money for the state treasury. Instead, an unexpectedly large number of taxpayers began calling themselves pass-throughs, and state tax revenues fell by hundreds of millions of dollars. Kansas lawmakers passed a bill to eliminate the exemption, which was derided as the “LLC loophole,” but Governor Sam Brownback vetoed the measure.Now, Trump’s administration wants to try a similar move. Pass-through businesses -- which include small businesses like corner stores and free-lancers but also doctors, lawyers, consultants and vastly profitable hedge funds -- get their name from the way they file taxes: The businesses pass their income through to their owners, who then pay tax based on their individual income-tax rate.The top individual income-tax rate is now 39.6 percent, though Trump’s plan would cut that to 35 percent. But for pass-through businesses, he’d cut it even more: to just 15 percent.Read more: Trump’s Tax Plan: One Page, Many Unanswered Questions‘Working Feverishly’Cue the rush among high-earning individuals to recast themselves as LLCs, sole proprietorships or other pass-throughs. “Absolutely!” said J. Richard Harvey, a tax law professor at Villanova University and a former senior official at both the Internal Revenue Service and the Treasury Department. “If a taxpayer has a choice between paying at a 15 percent top rate versus a 35 percent rate, the taxpayer and their tax planners will be working feverishly to take advantage of the 15 percent rate.”Trump’s plan was applauded by many small-business groups and Republicans, who say it would remedy an inequity in the current tax code, which taxes corporations at a maximum rate of 35 percent, while subjecting much pass-through business income to the 39.6 percent individual rate. Trump’s initiative would apply the same 15 percent rate to pass-throughs and multinational corporations.“We support efforts to treat America’s small business community just as their corporate counterparts and that requires an equal playing field when it comes to our tax system,” The National Association for the Self-Employed, which advocates on behalf of the 27 million Americans who file their taxes as self-employed, said in a written statement.Dividends TaxedBut many tax-fairness advocates say that comparison is mathematically unsound. In addition to the current 35 percent tax on corporate profits, any dividends paid by corporations are also taxed as investment income received by the shareholders who collect them, at rates up to 23.8 percent. But pass-through income is taxed only once, said Chuck Marr, director of federal tax policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.“The notion that this plan would achieve parity is a false comparison,” Marr, a former economic adviser to Senate Democrats and the Clinton White House, said. “Most of the savings of this change would go to the wealthiest businesses and the top 1 percent. But politicians love to stand up and say they are defending small businesses, so I fear it’s an argument that isn’t going away.”Meanwhile, budget hawks worry that the steep cut would cause massive increases to the federal deficit -- as much as $1.5 trillion over the next decade, according to the conservative Tax Foundation. Gauging the precise costs and benefits of Trump’s tax plan is difficult because the administration has released few details about how it would be implemented.Trump’s BusinessesGiven that about 70 percent of pass-through income comes from banks, hedge funds and holding companies, the cut would be a boon for the financial services industry and many of the wealthiest taxpayers. Because Trump’s business interests derive millions in earnings from real estate, critics have accused the President of proposing a tax windfall for himself.“Trump is seeking to dramatically reduce his own tax bill,” said Frank Clemente, executive director of Americans for Tax Fairness, a left-leaning advocacy group.White House spokesman Sean Spicer brushed aside that concern Thursday, saying that average taxpayers are far more interested in how Trump’s plan would affect their own pocketbooks.“I would guess that most Americans would applaud what the president is doing to spur economic growth and job creation in this country,” Spicer said.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has pledged that the new pass-through rate would be implemented in a way that “won’t be a loophole for rich people who should be paying higher rates,” but has not released any details about rules that might deter abuse.Size RestrictionsDavid S. Miller, a tax lawyer at Proskauer Rose LLP, said the proposal could be tailored to restrict the size or types of pass-throughs eligible for the 15 percent rate.“There are ways to write rules that would limit who could pay the lower rate -- by eliminating service providers or restricting it to businesses below a certain size,” Miller said.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Trump’s plan faces many hurdles in Congress and within the Treasury Department. But if enacted, it would present a challenge to the IRS, which would have to determine whether any influx of new pass-through businesses was legitimate. During the past decade, the agency has seen steep funding and manpower cuts that drastically reduced the number of classification audits it performs, said Garrett Gregory, a former senior attorney at the IRS until 2014 who worked in the agency’s large and mid-size business and international unit.Gregory said classification audits are notoriously time-intensive -- involving a 20-part test -- so the prospect of retraining auditors would strain an already overburdened workforce.“The IRS manpower is so low that it’s not like you have a lot of people sitting around twiddling their thumbs,” he said. “So it’s not a good time to have to retool them and redeploy them overnight. But there would be no choice. Otherwise, everyone and their dog will be filing as an LLC.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-s-tax-plan-hits-first-land-mine-blue-state-republicans
Trump’s Tax Plan Hits Its First Land Mine: Blue-State RepublicansMeadows: Tax Reform More Important Than 'Revenue Neutral'President Donald Trump’s pledge to repeal Obamacare ran into a Republican buzz saw. Now, his ambitious proposal to cut taxes is again encountering GOP opposition -- from lawmakers in Democratic-leaning states.Within a day of Trump’s top economic adviser Gary Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin releasing a dozen bullet points outlining the administration’s tax goals, at least three House Republicans criticized one of the key provisions -- eliminating the deductibility of state and local taxes -- estimated to raise $1.3 trillion over a decade.Read more: Trump’s Tax Plan: One Page, Many Unanswered QuestionsThe largest beneficiaries of the tax break are in New York, New Jersey and California, all relatively high-tax blue states, which eat up more than a third of the nationwide benefits, according to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.“I think it’s very important that it remain in the code,” said Representative Leonard Lance, a New Jersey Republican. “I am going to fight to keep it.”Lance said New Jersey has high property taxes that make the provision important for his constituents. He added that a push to eliminate that tax break was scuttled in the last big rewrite of the tax code in 1986.Trump’s Home StateThe state and local tax deduction is just one of the proposals that could provoke a titanic fight among Republicans as the White House tries to get its plan off the ground. The broader GOP fight is likely to focus on cost and how to pay for the individual and corporate tax cuts, if at all. There are 28 House Republicans from New York, New Jersey and California -- more than GOP leaders can afford to lose on a tax bill without Democratic votes.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Ditching the deduction would raise federal tax revenue by $1.3 trillion over 10 years, according to the Tax Policy Center, which found that 90 percent of that increase would be paid by taxpayers who earn $100,000 or more. Dropping it from the bill would make it even more difficult to ensure that tax reform is revenue neutral, or doesn’t add to the deficit. Revenue neutrality is needed to make a tax overhaul permanent under budget reconciliation rules in the Senate.Republicans from Trump’s home state of New York also said they want to keep it.“I’m going to stand up for New York,” said Representative Chris Collins, who represents a district in western New York. “I do oppose” ending it, Collins said, but added that he’s going to weigh it along with Trump’s other proposal to double the standard deduction.The tax plan on Wednesday also called for doubling the standard deduction, which would help lower- and middle-class taxpayers.‘Open Mind’The proposal to eliminate the state and local deduction represents a rare case in which conservative activists actually back a federal tax increase. The anti-tax activist Grover Norquist has argued that it effectively subsidizes -- and therefore encourages -- tax hikes on the state level, and that unwinding it would ratchet back that incentive.Eliminating the state and local tax deduction will help to level the playing field and prevent some states from subsidizing others, according to an administration official who briefed reporters Thursday on the condition of anonymity to discuss White House strategy.“It’s something I’m obviously very sensitive to coming from a high tax state,” said Representative Tom Reed, who represents upstate New York. "People have made it very clear to me, from New York that the property tax burden is huge and this is something that’s very important to them.”Still, he said, “I’m keeping an open mind as we go through tax reform.”Middle ClassNew Yorkers claimed $68 billion in itemized deductions for state and local taxes in 2014, according to an analysis by the conservative Empire Center for Public Policy. The average deduction in New York for state and local taxes was $21,038 that year.Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer of New York singled out the proposal to eliminate the state and local tax deduction on Thursday when he attacked Trump’s blueprint as “a direct assault on the middle class.”“It would mean an increase in taxes for middle class families,” Schumer said.Asked Thursday about Trump’s plan to scrap the state and local tax deduction, House Ways and Means tax subcommittee chairman Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican, made no promises."We’re going to look at all that," he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/trump-said-to-target-carried-interest-and-corporate-tax-breaks
Trump Still Targeting Carried Interest, White House Official SaysPresident Trump Calls for 'Biggest Tax Cut'President Donald Trump still plans to end a tax break that lets some investment managers pay lower tax rates than average workers, a White House official said.Trump’s one-page tax-plan outline released Wednesday didn’t mention carried interest, although his economic blueprint released during the presidential campaign said he would end the loophole. Republican lawmakers have shown little desire to change it.Carried interest is the portion of a fund’s profit -- usually a 20 percent share -- that’s paid to private equity managers, venture capitalists, hedge fund managers and certain real estate investors. Currently, tax authorities treat that income as capital gains, making it eligible for a rate as low as 23.8 percent. The top tax rate for ordinary income is 39.6 percent.It isn’t yet clear what the new tax rate would be, according to the official, who briefed reporters Thursday on condition of anonymity to discuss White House strategy. The plan released during Trump’s campaign called for taxing carried interest as ordinary income.Trump highlighted the carried-interest tax break during his campaign, labeling some hedge fund managers “paper pushers” who are “getting away with murder.”The official also said some companies could see their tax bills rise under Trump’s plan, which would cut corporate rates to 15 percent, because it will eliminate deductions that some corporations use to shrink tax liabilities below that level.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/-dynamic-scoring-and-more-tax-terms-to-know-quicktake-glossary
Pass-Throughs? AMT? Here Are the Tax-Reform Terms You Need to KnowFew topics in Washington lend themselves to jargon as readily as taxes. President Donald Trump’s drive for tax cuts, though only beginning, is already sending people diving for their dictionaries. Here are some of the terms worth understanding.As Trump promised, he is focusing on reducing the ...Corporate Tax RateLike most nations, the U.S. levies a graduated federal tax on the net profits of corporations. Trump’s goal is to slash the top rate to 15 percent, making the U.S. more competitive with the world. Since 1993, the top rate in the U.S. has been 35 percent (which grows to 39.1 percent when state and local corporate taxes are included). That is among the highest in the developed world. But thanks to deductions and credits, few companies pay that amount: In 2012, the effective rate was about 19 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office.Trump also wants to slash the tax rates for companies known as ...Pass-Through EntitiesA business organized as a partnership, limited-liability company or sole-proprietorship reports any profit on its owners’ tax returns -- "passing it through" to them. Taxes on those earnings are set at the individual rate, up to 39.6 percent for incomes above $418,400. Trump’s plan would lower the rate to 15 percent for pass-throughs. Of almost 30 million U.S. companies, about 95 percent are pass-throughs, accounting for about 20 percent of business income. Trump’s proposal could backfire by encouraging high-earning individuals to convert themselves into pass-through companies to get the lower rate. Republican lawmakers talk about pass-throughs as mostly mom-and-pop companies, yet pass-through business income is already concentrated among high earners. Most law firms, hedge funds and real-estate developers, such as the president’s own Trump Organization, are pass-through companies.For regular people who don’t have pass-throughs, Trump promises lower tax brackets for income tax, plus elimination of the ...Alternative Minimum TaxThe AMT was created in 1979 to make sure very wealthy households can’t take advantage of deductions and credits to the point that they pay little or no federal income tax. But thanks to inflation and the value of certain deductions, such as state and local taxes, some 5 million people now get caught by this minimum tax. (That includes Trump, who paid $38 million in alternative taxes on income of $150 million in 2005, judging by two pages of his leaked tax return.) Despite attempts by Congress to limit the AMT’s reach, the number of affected households continues to grow, along with the AMT’s unpopularity.Trump would like to eliminate, as well, the ...Estate TaxFor Republicans, this is one of the most unpopular parts of the U.S. tax system, which is why they like to call it the "death tax" and emphasize its effect on inheritance of family farms and small businesses. For Democrats, estate taxes are necessary to break up dynastic wealth and help reverse income inequality. Over the next 30 years, U.S. non-spousal heirs are expected to inherit more than $6 trillion. But not many estates pay the tax these days: In 2014, the U.S. collected only $16 billion this way. Current law excludes up to $5.49 million from an individual’s taxes, or $10.98 million for a couple’s. After that, the rate is 40 percent, but there are numerous ways, such as trusts, to shield assets. A 2015 congressional study found that 99.8 percent of U.S. deaths in 2013 triggered no estate tax.With so many people looking forward to seeing lower tax bills, one question is whether the Trump tax plan can possibly be ...Revenue NeutralThis high bar means a proposal has an equal balance of costs and savings, and so will have no net impact on the budget deficit. In his campaign and even recently, Trump had said that his tax plan would be revenue neutral, which suggested it would close enough loopholes and end enough deductions to continue raising the same level of revenue. As outlined, Trump’s plan seems highly unlikely to do that. (One cost estimate has the Trump plan losing between $3 trillion and $7 trillion in tax revenue over a decade.) His team says the cuts will unleash such an economic boom that tax revenues will naturally rise as well.This idea, of tax cuts paying for themselves, is held dear by Republicans and rests on an economic theory known as the ...Laffer CurveIn 1974, economist Arthur Laffer posited that tax cuts would lead to faster economic growth, higher employment and increased personal income, which would make up for some or all of the lost tax revenue. Others took Laffer’s idea and extended it to mean that tax cuts over time will pay for themselves. Trump’s tax plan buys into this by proposing huge tax cuts without fully offsetting them with spending cuts or tax increases elsewhere in the federal budget. The evidence that Laffer is correct is sketchy: President Ronald Reagan cut taxes deeply, but the deficit increased 255 percent by the time he left office in 1989. President Bill Clinton, on the other hand, raised taxes sharply and ended his second term in 2001 with a balanced budget.Laffer notwithstanding, Republicans are at least considering methods to raise money to offset lost revenue. Those ideas include a sustained crackdown on ...Profit ShiftingU.S. companies use creative methods to avoid paying the top corporate-tax rate of 35 percent. A favorite is to claim income came from a country -- Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and Ireland are popular -- with much lower tax rates. The U.S. taxes companies on their worldwide income, unlike the rest of the developed world; companies, however, can defer paying taxes on offshore profits that are kept outside the U.S. Such tax-avoidance maneuvers cost the U.S. tens of billions of dollars a year. Trump’s plan seeks to address this by lowering the top corporate tax rate to 15 percent and switching the U.S. to a territorial system, which taxes only earnings from U.S. sales. Profits stashed overseas would be hit with a one-time repatriation tax. The Trump outline didn’t specify what that amount might be.A different revenue-raising idea that has struggled to win Trump’s favor is called a ...Border-Adjusted TaxThis idea for a new corporate-tax system, which would tax imports but not exports, is splitting Republicans and their business allies, and Trump didn’t include it in his plan. House Republican leaders favor border adjustments as a way to boost manufacturing and discourage companies from moving offshore. It would work like this: Companies would pay a 20 percent tax on products that are made abroad and sold in the U.S., or made and consumed domestically. Products made in the U.S. and sold abroad would not be taxed. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and others that depend heavily on low-priced imports to stock their shelves say it would increase costs for their retail customers and could violate trade agreements. Supporters say the higher cost of imports would be offset by a rise in the value of the dollar.One way around the revenue-neutrality bar is to put a 10-year expiration date on the tax cuts, making them ...Temporary Tax CutsLike George W. Bush at the start of his presidency in 2001, Trump could specify that his tax cuts will expire in 10 years. This would increase the odds of passage in the U.S. Senate, where budget bills that don’t increase the deficit beyond 10 years can pass with a simple majority vote. Other bills require a 60-vote supermajority; Republicans hold 52 seats. Some businesses may consider a 10-year tax cut too short a period for the long-term commitments they require for investment and expansion decisions. On the other hand, most of Bush’s temporary tax cuts wound up becoming permanent.So who will decide whether Trump’s plan is revenue-neutral or revenue-diminishing? Expect to hear a lot about the ...Joint Committee on TaxationGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.This little-known, non-partisan congressional committee is the highly influential referee of whether a legislative proposal will add to the federal deficit. It has Ph.D economists and accountants on its staff, which is led by Tom Barthold, a former professor of economics at Dartmouth College. The chairmen of the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee take turns leading the panel. How the committee "scores" Trump’s tax proposal will influence its chances at winning passage in Congress.Thanks to a change enacted by Republicans last year, the committee will use a method known as ...Dynamic ScoringAnalysts at the joint committee (and at the Congressional Budget Office) must consider how tax or policy changes might affect behavior -- like how raising taxes on cigarettes might reduce sales. This is known as dynamic scoring, and it’s more art than science. Trump says his plan will encourage companies to expand and hire more workers to put in longer hours, which will lead to stronger economic growth and the payment of new taxes, ultimately offsetting the loss of trillions of tax revenue over 10 years. Lots of Democratic economists -- and even some Republican ones -- disagree with that analysis.The Reference ShelfA QuickTake explainer on the U.S. budget deficit.A 2016 report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office found that almost one-fifth of large American corporations that made a profit in 2012 paid no federal income tax.The conservative Tax Foundation looked at seven tax reforms and found that President Ronald Reagan’s 1981 tax cut had the biggest long-term benefit, 8 percent growth.Michael Tanner at the Cato Institute, which favors limited government, says Trump’s corporate tax cuts could eventually mean higher wages for workers.The Laffer Curve was first drawn on a dinner napkin.
https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2017-trump-100-days-economy/
What Trump’s Done—or Undone—for Business in 100 DaysPresident Donald Trump came into office with big promises for turbo-charging the economy and unleashing American business, promoting an agenda of tax cuts, lightened regulatory burden and 4 percent economic growth.Weeks before his election, he went to Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, to offer a “contract” with American voters on what he would achieve in his first 100 days. Among the terms, removal of regulatory restrictions on energy production, a tougher stance on trade and a promise to win passage of a spate of legislation. He wants massive tax cuts, a tariff on U.S. companies that lay off workers to move production offshore, a $1 trillion infrastructure package and the repeal and replacement of Obamacare. All completed by April 29.As he reaches the 100-day mark on Saturday, Trump hasn’t been shy about celebrating his record. He says no president has done more in that period. Well, in the same span, Franklin Roosevelt won passage of key parts of the New Deal. Barack Obama had passed his economic stimulus and expanded health insurance coverage for children. Despite an election recount that delayed his transition, George W. Bush had at least introduced the education legislation that became his No Child Left Behind Act.So, what has Trump accomplished? His biggest early achievement could have consequences for decades: nomination and confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, who had a record of ruling in favor of businesses as an appeals court judge. Beyond that, what he’s undone may be more important than what he’s done.Using the Congressional Review Act, a little-known law signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996, Trump and the Republican-led Congress have reversed recent Obama regulations ranging from pollution limits to internet privacy safeguards.Thirteen Acts Signed by Trump to Roll Back RegulationsSources: The White House, BGOV, Bloomberg reportingThat makes up 13 of the 28 pieces of legislation Trump has signed—the White House says that’s the most in the period since Harry Truman. But despite Republican majorities in the House and Senate, he hasn’t yet signed into law any of his major policy priorities. He’s signed eight laws that have been ceremonial or procedural, such as renaming a clinic or appointing a board member. His most consequential legislation continues a program allowing veterans to use private medical facilities under certain circumstances.When he couldn’t wipe out a regulation with the stroke of a pen, he’s used executive orders to delay their start and begin the opening stages of rolling them back. By Saturday, Trump will have signed more than 30 executive orders, more than any president at this point since Franklin Roosevelt, the White House says. Some of them have far-reaching effects, others simply order his administration to begin studying a problem.Sources: The White House, U.S. National Archives and Records Administration, Bloomberg reportingThose moves have the potential to save the economy more than $18 billion per year in complying with regulatory costs, according to the American Action Forum, a conservative-leaning think tank. An executive order calling for two rules to be rolled back for each new one created could go even further.Trump’s given one of the biggest boosts to the energy industry by unilaterally dismantling some of the broad government-wide architecture Obama built to combat climate change and by ordering his agencies to begin unwinding other environmental rules. His State Department reversed the Obama administration’s rejection of TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline.Trump’s also boosted his pro-business image by hosting 14 meetings in his first 100 days with 84 chief executive officers at the White House to solicit their advice on how to stimulate the economy. Some of that has already turned into action, like an executive order encouraged by the auto industry to give them more time to dispute the fuel-mileage and emissions standards set by the Obama administration.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-rallies-social-conservatives-on-guns-wall-at-nra-meeting
Trump Rallies Social Conservatives on Guns, Border Wall at NRA MeetingPresident Donald Trump stands with National Rifle Association President Wayne LaPierre (right) and NRA-ILA executive director Chris Cox during a forum in Atlanta on April 28, 2017.President Donald Trump declared his continuing commitment to gun rights, construction of a border wall and keeping out immigrants sympathetic to Islamist extremists before a gathering of one of the nation’s largest and best-organized conservative groups.“You came through for me, and I am going to come through for you,” Trump said Friday at the National Rifle Association convention in Atlanta.Trump’s visit to the group’s 2017 Leadership Forum was the first by a sitting president since Ronald Reagan in 1983. Coming just one day before his 100th day in office on Saturday, his speech both celebrated his electoral victory as a blow to the NRA’s political opponents and showcased his support for the causes that helped galvanize the culturally conservative working-class whites who helped him win office.While Trump has had trouble winning funding from Congress for construction of the border wall that was a centerpiece of his presidential campaign, he offered assurances the project would be completed.“We’ll build the wall. Don’t even think about it," Trump said.He pledged that opponents of gun restrictions now “have a true friend and champion in the White House.”The NRA, which endorsed Trump when he spoke at last year’s annual meeting, stood by him during his campaign even as other conservative organizations approached him more cautiously. In all, the group spent $30 million in 2016 on ads supporting him and attacking Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.His first pick for a Supreme Court vacancy, Neil Gorsuch, was praised by the NRA, and is widely expected to follow in the footsteps of his seat’s previous occupant, Antonin Scalia, in ruling against gun-control laws.Trump’s trip to Atlanta and a handful of actions he’s taken during his first 100 days send clear signals. In February, Trump signed a Congressional Review Act bill reversing an Obama-era regulation that allowed the Social Security Administration to notify the FBI background check system about potential gun buyers who are on receiving disability payments and are considered mentally impaired.The Trump administration also has reversed a policy adopted under President Barack Obama banning the use of lead ammunition and fishing tackle on federal wildlife refuges and protected wetlands. The Obama administration said the step would prevent plants and animals from being poisoned by lead left on the ground or in water. Gun rights advocates including the NRA and some hunting groups opposed the step because lead is standard in ammunition and lead-free bullets are more expensive.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.While in Georgia, Trump also planned to attend a fundraiser for Karen Handel, the Republican running in a special election for the House seat vacated by his health and human services secretary, Tom Price. Handel came in second during the first round of voting, behind Jon Ossoff, a Democrat. At the NRA, Trump mentioned the contest, calling it “an incredible fight” and encouraging Republicans to turn out.Michael Bloomberg, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, serves on the advisory board of Everytown for Gun Safety, which advocates for universal background checks and other gun control measures.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/clean-power-plan-suit-shelved-short-of-resolution-by-u-s-court
Trump Wins Easier Path to Scrapping Obama's Clean Power PlanTrump's Mysterious Feelings on Global WarmingPresident Donald Trump won a court ruling making it easier for him to rescind the Clean Power Plan, his predecessor’s program for weaning American power producers off of coal and other fossil fuels.The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington on Friday put a 26-state lawsuit challenging the plan on hold for 60 days without deciding whether the initiative is legal. That decision followed a request to halt the case from Trump’s new U.S. Environmental Protection Agency chief and came despite objections from conservation groups, 18 states and cities including New York, Chicago and Philadelphia.The ruling is a significant win for Trump, said Jeff Holmstead, a former assistant EPA administrator for air and radiation. Because the panel didn’t issue a substantive ruling -- an outcome sought by environmentalists -- it’s now easier and will be quicker for the Trump administration to undo it, Holmstead said.“Had they gotten a decision upholding the rule, then that would have created more issues the administration would have to deal with; it would have complicated things,” said Holmstead, a lawyer with Bracewell LLP. “Without a decision, it really gives them a blank sheet of paper to work on.”Killing the regulatory package meant to slow the pace of climate change will make it more difficult for the U.S. to meet greenhouse gas reduction commitments it made with more than 143 other nations at a 2015 Paris summit.30-Day UpdateThe appeals court asked the EPA for 30-day updates on the rule. The panel also asked parties to file comments by May 15, addressing whether the case should remain on hold or if the Clean Power plan should be sent back to the agency, which could then revise or repeal it.The EPA, led Scott Pruitt, who has sued over the plan as Oklahoma Attorney General, welcomed the decision.“We always knew there were serious legal problems with this initiative from the Obama administration,” EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox said in a statement.The court’s order was also hailed by West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, whose office was the first to file suit challenging the plan published in October 2015. Morrisey called the ruling “a positive step” toward protecting West Virginia coal miners whose livelihoods he maintains are threatened by the CPP.New DirectiveGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The court’s ruling follows Trump’s March 28 executive order directing EPA heads to review existing regulations that “potentially burden the development or use of domestically produced energy resources.” Trump specifically singled out the Clean Power Plan for scrutiny, with the goal of suspending, revising or rescinding the measure. Pruitt’s request to put the 2015 case on hold was filed the same day.A 10-judge panel heard arguments in September. Twenty-seven mostly Republican-led states initially joined the litigation. North Carolina dropped out this year.The initiative, designed to cut U.S. carbon dioxide emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, never took effect. The U.S. Supreme Court put it on hold in February 2016 at the request of some of the states suing to overturn it, pending the outcome of the litigation. The rule gave states years to make cuts with outlines on how they would do so due by September 2016.New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, whose office intervened to defend the plan, said the court’s decision is a temporary pause and “does not relieve” the EPA of its legal obligations to limit pollution from fossil-fueled power plants.“Nor does it change the reality of the dire harm climate change is causing to communities around New York and across the country,” Schneiderman said. “If President Trump wants to repeal the Clean Power Plan, he has to replace it -- period.”Other CasesThe case is one of a handful the Trump administration has asked to put on hold. EPA regulations aimed at curbing urban smog by setting ground-level ozone standards were assailed by industry groups as too stringent and by conservation groups as insufficient. The court canceled an April 19 hearing at the administration’s request, leaving the dispute in limbo.The court also indefinitely delayed arguments in a North Dakota-led lawsuit challenging EPA rules for carbon dioxide emissions from power plants built after January 2014. An April 17 hearing was postponed pending an EPA request to halt the case while it reviews the regulation.The EPA also asked the court to pause a lawsuit over its methane emission rules. The agency cited its “inherent authority to reconsider past decisions and to revise, replace or repeal a decision.”“This decision is disappointing, but still leaves key issues about the future of the Clean Power Plan to be resolved,” said attorney David Doniger, director of the Climate and Clean Air Program at the Washington-based Natural Resources Defense Council. The NRDC intervened in the case in defense of the EPA and its plan.If the court remands the CPP to the EPA, the Supreme Court hold placed on its deadlines last year is nullified, Doniger said in a statement. State compliance deadlines are back in force unless and until the agency reenters the rule-making process and makes changes. Those alterations too could be subject to legal challenge.If the court places the case on hold indefinitely, then the Supreme Court’s ruling would would remain in place, which means the EPA could kill the plan without doing anything.“It would be much more difficult to hold them to account in court,” Doniger said.The case is West Virginia v. Environmental Protection Agency, 15-1363, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia (Washington).
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/warren-troubled-by-report-of-wall-street-paid-obama-speech
Warren ‘Troubled’ by Report of Wall Street-Paid Obama SpeechWarren ‘Troubled’ by Report of Wall Street-Paid Obama Speech  THE ASSOCIATED PRESSSenator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts, speaks during a Senate Banking Committee hearing in Washington on March 23, 2017.Washington (AP) -- U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are not happy about reports that former President Barack Obama will be paid $400,000 to speak at a September health care conference put on by the Wall Street firm Cantor Fitzgerald.Warren said Thursday on SiriusXM's "Alter Family Politics" program that she is concerned about the overall influence of money in politics.Sanders, a fierce Wall Street critic, told "CBS This Morning" he finds it unfortunate that Obama took on the engagement at a time when "people are frustrated with the power of Wall Street and big-money interests."Sanders' distrust of politicians receiving what he considers exorbitant paychecks for speaking to major investment banks is well known. He relentlessly criticized former rival Hillary Clinton for her speeches to Goldman Sachs when they were vying for the Democratic Party's nomination last year.Obama spokesman Eric Schultz said in a statement that the Democratic former president accepted the invitation to speak because health care is "an issue of great importance to him." He added that Obama implemented financial reforms even after taking money from Wall Street as a candidate in 2008.Obama will be true to his values and record "regardless of venue or sponsor" for his speeches, Schultz said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-s-top-candidate-for-n-y-prosecutor-angered-chicago-feds
Trump's Favorite for Wall Street Cop: A Ferris Bueller Prototype Who Angered Chicago FedsPresident Donald Trump’s leading candidate to run the nation’s most prestigious prosecutor’s office infuriated government lawyers a decade ago by testifying as a defense witness for a former Illinois governor facing U.S. corruption charges.It was a bizarre spectacle because the witness, Edward E. McNally, was then the top federal prosecutor in southern Illinois and criticized the work of his colleagues in Chicago. On the witness stand, McNally raised questions about the conduct of an FBI agent and prosecutors during a 2001 interview with the ex-governor, George Ryan, whom McNally had previously represented as a private attorney.That wasn’t the only reason prosecutors were angry. The law firm defending Ryan was also involved in trying to collect a disputed six-figure debt from McNally himself related to the bankruptcy of his former employer. McNally “had a motive to curry favor” with Ryan’s law firm to influence the outcome of his personal financial dispute, prosecutors said in court papers.The Justice Department reviewed McNally’s conduct based on a request by two U.S. senators. The probe found he acted appropriately, according to McNally’s lawyer at the time.The 2006 testimony is likely to resurface. McNally is the frontrunner to become U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, according to a White House official and another person familiar with the matter. It’s a powerful post because it covers Manhattan and handles some of the country’s highest-profile cases involving terrorism, bank fraud and insider trading.‘Most Honorable’“McNally’s involvement in the extensive grand jury investigation and trial relating to former Illinois Governor George Ryan was extraordinary and highly unusual,” said Patrick Collins, a prosecutor in Ryan’s case, in a statement this week. McNally “sought to undermine the credibility of the best and most honorable FBI agent I have ever known.”McNally, 61, didn’t respond to requests for an interview. Geoffrey Klineberg, who represented McNally in the 2006 Justice Department review, said his client acted ethically and notified the department about conflicts before testifying. McNally was vindicated in the subsequent investigation requested by the senators, Klineberg said.“As a trial witness in a difficult situation, his only motive and his sole duty was to tell the truth -- a duty with which he complied,” Klineberg said. “His testimony was straight down the middle, and he answered every question asked by each side.”The White House didn’t respond to a request for comment. A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment.To read more on U.S. Attorney firings, click hereLawrence Fox, who teaches legal ethics at Yale Law School, said the situation was strange, even if McNally made his conflicts known to the Justice Department.“It’s unusual to have a situation arise where you have a lawyer from the Justice Department cross-examining another lawyer from the Justice Department,” he said. “How awkward is that?”If selected, McNally would succeed Preet Bharara, who was fired along with 45 other Obama administration holdovers last month. Trump hasn’t named any replacements.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.McNally is a partner at Kasowitz Benson Torres LLP, which has represented Trump in personal and business disputes and former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly against sexual harassment claims. A Chicago native, McNally has an eclectic background. He graduated from Yale University and Notre Dame law school and worked as a local prosecutor in Alaska, a speech writer under President George H.W. Bush, the first White House general counsel for homeland security and counterterrorism, and a private attorney, according to his firm’s website.He also was a prosecutor under then-Manhattan U.S. Attorney Rudy Giuliani, a Trump adviser.Ferris Bueller'Ferris Bueller's Day Off', 1986.Photographer: Paramount/Getty ImagesThere’s another reason McNally stands out: He said in a 2009 essay that he may have been the inspiration for the charming but rule-breaking title character in the 1986 movie “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.” McNally said he grew up with the movie’s director, and once ran a car in reverse on jacks to roll back the odometer. That trick appears in the film, when Bueller persuades a pal that it’s the way to cover a misdeed.“The Tao of Ferris,” McNally wrote, has helped his legal career. “One key lesson from Ferris is his repeated message to his despondent buddy Cameron,” he said. “Your current situation doesn’t have to be your fate. There’s always another way.”The circumstances surrounding McNally’s testimony at Ryan’s trial are detailed in court records.The testimony related to a Feb. 5, 2001, interview of Ryan by FBI agent Raymond Ruebenson and three prosecutors. Ryan was a target in an investigation into the sale of commercial drivers’ licenses and other misconduct. During the interview, he was represented by McNally, then a partner in the Chicago law firm Altheimer & Gray. Ryan didn’t run again in 2002 and was indicted the next year.By then, McNally had rejoined the government after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.The Chicago law firm Winston & Strawn LLP defended Ryan at his trial and subpoenaed McNally to testify about the 2001 interview. When he took the witness stand on Feb. 16, 2006, McNally was nearing the end of a four-month stint as interim U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois. He notified Chicago prosecutors 10 days before his testimony that he would be called.‘No Words’On the witness stand, McNally said Ruebenson, the FBI agent, didn’t take notes during his Ryan interview. When McNally raised the issue with prosecutors, “the response was that they stared at me and spoke no words,” he testified.Ryan’s defense sought to raise doubts about Ruebenson’s report on the interview and combat one of the charges -- that Ryan lied in the 2001 meeting. Special Agent Ruebenson didn’t return phone messages.McNally’s testimony “failed as the jury vindicated SA Ruebenson and convicted Mr. Ryan of each of the charged false statement counts,” Collins, now in private practice, said in his statement. Ryan, convicted of racketeering, fraud and making false statements, was sentenced to a 6 1/2-year term and freed from prison and home confinement in 2013.Ryan, in an interview, said McNally’s experience as a prosecutor was valuable to his defense team early in the investigation. He said he didn’t remember much about McNally’s testimony.“McNally is a superb lawyer,” said Dan Webb, the Winston & Strawn lawyer who represented Ryan.Bankruptcy DisclosureLess than two weeks after McNally’s testimony, prosecutors learned that lawyers at Winston & Strawn -- the same firm representing Ryan -- were also involved in trying to collect a debt from McNally related to Altheimer & Gray’s 2003 bankruptcy. Neither McNally nor Winston & Strawn had disclosed the issue to prosecutors on the Ryan case, records show.A court-appointed liquidator sought to settle claims with Altheimer’s ex-partners, and all but McNally and four others agreed. The liquidator, Jacob Brandzel, determined McNally was responsible for some Altheimer debts and offered to settle for a $140,700 payment. McNally declined, arguing he wasn’t part of the restructured firm that collapsed.Winston & Strawn, which represented Brandzel, sued the other four partners. The firm held off suing McNally while the two sides negotiated. Brandzel, who died in 2008, said McNally’s role in Ryan’s case had no impact on his handling of the claim, court papers show.In court, prosecutors fought to put McNally back on the stand, saying he stood to benefit financially by testifying as a defense witness. They produced an email in which McNally’s attorneys sought a two-month reprieve in repayment negotiations from Winston & Strawn by referring to his testimony in Ryan’s trial.McNally’s “willingness to allow his past and present employment in positions of high public trust to be used in an attempt to influence the resolution of a personal financial dispute seriously undercut the image that McNally presented to the jury as a selfless public servant,” prosecutors wrote.Separate TeamsRyan’s lawyers at Winston & Strawn told the judge there was no quid pro quo for McNally’s testimony, adding that Ryan’s defense and bankruptcy collection were handled by separate legal teams.Ultimately, a statement was read to jurors explaining the circumstances.In March 2006, U.S. Senator Richard Durbin and then-Senator Barack Obama asked the Justice Department to investigate McNally’s conduct. In a letter to Durbin the following month, the agency said the matter was “under review.” Durbin’s office didn’t hear anything about the outcome of the probe, a spokesman said.After five months, the Justice Department concluded McNally had provided proper disclosures before testifying and was not obligated to tell prosecutors about the conflicts, said Klineberg, McNally’s lawyer at the time.McNally ultimately settled claims over Altheimer’s bankruptcy for an unspecified six-figure amount, said Richard Porter, one of his lawyers. His testimony didn’t hurt his standing in the Justice Department: He left southern Illinois to became senior counsel for the agency’s criminal division.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/business-health-groups-demand-obamacare-funds-in-spending-bill
Business, Health Groups Demand Obamacare Funds in Spending BillRep. Meadows Says Votes Are There to Pass Health BillSeveral business and health groups are saying a $1.1 trillion bill to keep the U.S. government from shutting down must include payments to health insurers under Obamacare, creating another hurdle for Republicans to overcome as they try to pass the measure.On Thursday, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, America’s Health Insurance Plans, the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and other groups issued a statement saying that the spending bill has to include Obamacare’s so-called cost-sharing-reduction payments. The payments are used to help poor people afford health coverage, and without them health insurers have threatened to pull out of the law or sharply raise rates.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.“Funding this critical financial assistance for at least two years is the only way to protect these consumers,” the lobbying groups said in the statement. Their members represent some of Washington’s biggest spenders on lobbying and political contributions. “Clarity and commitment to this funding is needed to eliminate confusion and anxiety for consumers, and to allow health plans to make timely and appropriate decisions about market participation in 2018.”The demand threatens to upend progress on the spending bill, after President Donald Trump’s administration seemed to agree to keep making the insurer payments without an act of Congress. Trump had previously threatened to hold the payments hostage unless he got funding for a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.No PromisesYet the White House didn’t promise to fund the payments for a certain amount of time. The administration told insurers it will commit only to making the payments through the end of next month, said Kristine Grow, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, in an email.An administration aide said a final decision on how long the payments will continue hasn’t been made. Insurers have just weeks to decide whether to participate in Obamacare next year.Mario Molina, chief executive officer of Molina Healthcare Inc., said Thursday the insurer would drop Obamacare plans “immediately” if the CSR payments aren’t funded.“ That would result in about 650,000 to 700,000 people losing insurance coverage in 2017,” Molina wrote House and Senate leaders.Anthem Inc. would raise premium rates 20 percent or more, or drop coverage in certain areas, without the payments, CEO Joseph Swedish said Wednesday during a conference call with investors.Democrats are hopeful Trump won’t hold the funds hostage.“I expect they’re going to continue them certainly for a long period of time,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, said Thursday when asked if he had secured a commitment. “The forces that forced them to do it on their own are still there. They know that if 6 million people lose coverage because premiums go way up, it’s on their backs.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/puerto-rico-hired-ex-trump-staffer-to-lobby-it-got-mean-tweets
Hiring Lewandowski to Lobby Hasn’t Saved Puerto Rico From Mean Trump TweetsCorey Lewandowski at Trump Tower in New York on Nov. 28, 2016.  Photographer: Anthony Behar/Pool via BloombergPuerto Rico hired President Donald Trump’s former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, to work his influence in Washington. But by Thursday afternoon, all the distressed island got from the Commander in Chief was dismissive tweets.As Congress raced to cobble together a budget deal to prevent a government shutdown, Trump lashed out at Democrats, claiming they are seeking to use the negotiations to “bail out” the crisis-wracked territory. That put him at odds with Lewandowski’s lobbying firm, Avenue Strategies, which was hired to help Puerto Rico procure additional funds from Congress and promote the island’s interests in the nation’s capital, according to a review of the agreement provided by the island’s Office of the Comptroller.“The Democrats want to shut government if we don’t bail out Puerto Rico and give billions to their insurance companies for OCare failure. NO!,” Trump tweeted at 4:30 a.m. Thursday.“Democrats are trying to bail out insurance companies from disastrous #ObamaCare, and Puerto Rico with your tax dollars. Sad!,” Trump tweeted at 4:06 p.m. Wednesday.Democrats are seeking to include additional Medicaid funds for Puerto Rico in the federal budget. The commonwealth is set to deplete its supplemental Medicaid funding by Dec. 31 and is at risk of dropping hundreds of thousands from the program.Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello said Trump’s remarks on social media run counter to the sentiments in Congress. The president’s tweets, he said in a statement, “don’t reflect the feelings of the majority on the issue and the analysis that’s being produced in Congress on the matter.”U.S. Representative Tom Cole, a Republican who sits on the appropriations committee, and Jim Costa, a Democrat on the panel that oversees Puerto Rico issues, said there are bipartisan discussions underway to prevent the collapse of the health-care system. “There are some big numbers” being discussed, Costa said. Trump’s Secretary for Health and Human Services, Tom Price, has estimated it would cost about $900 million to fully fund the island’s Medicaid program through mid-2018.Puerto Rico will have a difficult time getting support for financial assistance from the White House, even with Lewandowski’s professional help, said Amilcar Antonio Barreto, a political scientist at Northeastern University in Boston who studies Puerto Rico.“What he’s signaling is that if you think I’m going to throw you a status or a financial life preserver, you’re wrong,” Barreto said. “I don’t think they’re getting much of anything despite the glimmer of hope that they can get the Trump administration to advocate for Puerto Rican statehood, which I sincerely doubt will ever happen.”Puerto Rico hired Avenue Strategies to “discuss, identify, originate, promote and secure federal funds, incentives and other programs that benefit, enable and achieve the government’s public policy,” according to a copy of the agreement.Lewandowski founded Avenue Strategies with Barry Bennett, a former campaign manager for Ben Carson who later worked for Trump. The lobbying firm is located two blocks away from the White House. Lewandowski claims he can see the president’s bedroom from his office.Avenue Strategies’ work for their clients is confidential, Bennett said in an e-mail, referring questions to Rossello’s administration. Yennifer Alvarez, Rossello’s spokeswoman, declined to comment.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The president’s tweets weren’t the first rebuke from the Trump administration. In April, the Department of Justice sent a letter to Rossello, saying that the current ballot for the referendum on the island’s statehood status was insufficient because it didn’t include the status quo as an option. Rossello is a strong advocate for statehood, though the referendum set for later this year also includes independence as a possible choice.Puerto Rico’s four-month pact with Avenue Strategies is set to expire June 30. The island may pay the firm up to $125,000 per year and as much as $25,000 each month, according to the agreement.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/trump-knows-striking-north-korea-is-last-resort-mccain-says
Trump Knows Striking North Korea Is Last Resort, McCain SaysHow China and the U.S. Could Deal With North KoreaPresident Donald Trump is well aware that a preemptive strike against North Korea must be a last resort, in large part because of the artillery Kim Jong Un’s regime could unleash to devastate South Korea’s capital, Senator John McCain said.“One of the major reasons is because of that artillery that’s north of Seoul -- that is really of concern,” McCain, the Republican chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Thursday in an interview after the panel heard testimony from Admiral Harry Harris, the chief of the U.S. Pacific Command.“I know that the president is committed” to “building up this relationship he has” with China’s President Xi Jinping, North Korea’s neighbor and economic lifeline, McCain said.Trump wrote in a Twitter posting this month that “I have great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea. If they are unable to do so, the U.S., with its allies, will! U.S.A”While the Pentagon has dispatched an aircraft carrier group and submarine to the region, McCain said he believes the White House is a long way from directing a military strike. “I hope there’s a lot more to go before we have a preemptive strike,” McCain said. “They are exploring every option and the last option -- and the least desirable option -- is armed conflict.”Read how North Korea defies the world with nuclear ambitions -- a QuickTakeGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The administration has been placing increased emphasis on diplomatic and economic pressure this week. On Thursday, Trump’s top national security officials issued a joint statement saying the U.S. “seeks stability and the peaceful denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. We remain open to negotiations towards that goal.” That theme will be underscored Friday when Secretary of State Rex Tillerson goes to New York to lead a discussion on North Korea in the United Nations Security Council.McCain has been critical of Trump on some international issues -- especially for his past talk that he could cut deals with Russian President Vladimir Putin -- but the Arizona senator has expressed confidence in the former generals who are shaping Trump’s defense policies.After meeting with Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Moscow on Thursday, Putin said the two leaders believe the situation on the Korean peninsula has “seriously deteriorated.” Putin said, “We call on all states involved in the region’s affairs to refrain from military rhetoric and seek peaceful, constructive dialogue.”In two days of congressional testimony, Harris walked a line between sending a message that the U.S. may take whatever military action is necessary to prevent North Korea from completing development and deployment of nuclear missiles that could reach the U.S. mainland while not spelling out the “hard power” military options that are under consideration.Alternatives already provided to the White House “would be effective tonight if called upon to execute,” Harris said.‘Vast Array’Harris told the House Armed Services Committee on Wednesday that North Korea’s artillery poses “a very dramatic challenge” to Seoul. One of the world’s most densely populated cities, it lies within range of the Demilitarized Military Zone “and the heights north of the DMZ where Kim Jong Un has a vast array ” of rocket forces and artillery, he said.U.S. commanders in Korea have said that as many as 250 long-range artillery systems are stationed within 90 kilometers (56 miles) of the DMZ and are capable of striking parts of Seoul.Still, Stratfor, a private geopolitical analysis firm, said in a recent assessment that “only a small portion -- Koksan 170mm self-propelled guns, as well as 240mm and 300mm multiple-launch rocket systems -- are capable of actually reaching Seoul.”“Broadly speaking,” the bulk of North Korea’s artillery “can only reach into the northern border area of South Korea or the northern outskirts of Seoul,” Stratfor’s analysts said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/trump-tells-reuters-major-conflict-with-north-korea-possible
Trump Warns of ‘Major Conflict’ If Talks on North Korea FailHow China and the U.S. Could Deal With North KoreaPresident Donald Trump said a “major conflict” with North Korea was possible if diplomatic solutions fail, although Senator John McCain said the U.S. leader understood that military action was a last resort.“There is a chance that we could end up having a major, major conflict with North Korea. Absolutely,” Trump said in an interview with Reuters. “We’d love to solve things diplomatically, but it’s very difficult.” He praised President Xi Jinping for pressing North Korea -- China’s neighbor and ally -- saying the Chinese leader was “trying very hard.”Trump also ruffled feathers with South Korea in the interview by saying the country should pay for a missile-defense system being installed on its soil, and threatening to scrap a bilateral trade deal.He spoke after U.S. national security leaders this week emphasized economic sanctions and diplomacy to persuade North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. At the same time, the U.S. is boosting its military presence with an aircraft carrier battle group and submarine as it leaves open the option of striking first against Kim Jong Un’s regime.“For the time being, the U.S. government is bluffing,” said Andrei Lankov, a history professor at Kookmin University in Seoul. “They are essentially doing what the North Koreans have been doing for decades -- saber-rattling and chest beating. The major target is not North Korea but China.”Lankov said the Trump administration wanted to convince the Chinese they faced the choice between full-blown war or undermining the North Korean economy, which might lead to unrest. “Trump has learned how to play games from Kim Jong Un,” he said.‘Last Option’McCain, a former Republican presidential nominee who has been critical of Trump on some international issues, told Bloomberg that Trump was aware of the risks of a preemptive strike on North Korea. He cited the likelihood of a retaliatory artillery attack on the South Korean capital.“I hope there’s a lot more to go before we have a preemptive strike,” McCain, who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee, said after the U.S.’s top Pacific commander, Admiral Harry Harris, testified before the panel. “They are exploring every option and the last option -- and the least desirable option -- is armed conflict.”A White House briefing for the entire Senate earlier in the week didn’t provide any additional details about the North Korea situation than what has been publicly reported, Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon told MSNBC Friday.“What they’re doing is beating the war drum and then trying to convert that into China applying pressure to end the nuclear program in North Korea,” Merkley said.Pressing PeaceChinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told reporters Friday that dialogue and consultation were the only ways to resolve the nuclear issue on the Korea Peninsula. “Solving the issue peacefully is also something all related parties have in common,” Geng said at a briefing in Beijing.Trump said he informed South Korea that it would be “appropriate if they paid” for the “billion-dollar” Thaad missile shield designed to intercept any attack from North Korea. South Korea’s defense ministry responded in a statement that it will only provide land and facilities for the deployment and operation of the system as agreed.U.S. forces transported equipment to the site of the Thaad battery in southeastern Korea this week amid protests from local residents. The shield may be at least partially operational within days.Merkley said that “it seems completely the wrong moment” for Trump to be discussing scrapping a trade deal with South Korea and asking that nation to pay for the missile system.U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will discuss North Korea with his counterparts at the United Nations Security Council in New York on Friday. Tillerson told Fox News that China had warned Kim’s regime it would impose further sanctions if it conducted a sixth nuclear test.China “confirmed to us that they had requested the regime conduct no further nuclear test,” Tillerson said. “We were told by the Chinese that they informed the regime that if they did conduct a further nuclear test, China would be taking sanctions actions on their own.”‘Not Easy’Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Geng, the foreign ministry spokesman, deflected questions about Tillerson’s comments, saying that China’s opposition to nuclear tests was spelled out in the Security Council decisions it backed. China banned coal imports from North Korea this year and the Global Times, a nationalist newspaper affiliated with Communist Party, warned earlier this month that another nuclear test might prompt oil curbs.“As the situation in the Korean peninsula worsens, ties between the two countries may further deteriorate,” the Global Times said in an editorial Friday. “China should ready itself for unfriendly activities by North Korea.”Tillerson reiterated the Trump administration wants to change North Korea’s perception that it needs nuclear weapons to ensure its survival. “We have been very clear we do not seek regime change in North Korea,” he said.Asked whether he thought Kim was rational, Trump said he hoped so.“He’s 27 years old. His father dies, took over a regime. So say what you want, but that is not easy, especially at that age,” Trump told Reuters. “I’m not giving him credit or not giving him credit, I’m just saying that’s a very hard thing to do.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-25/trump-s-sanctuary-cities-order-blocked-by-federal-judge
Trump’s Sanctuary Cities Order Blocked by Federal JudgeThe Trump administration vowed to keep fighting to cut funding to so-called sanctuary cities and accused the federal judge who blocked its plans of ignoring immigration law.The ruling Tuesday bars President Donald Trump from withholding funds from jurisdictions that refuse to cooperate with federal agencies to deport undocumented immigrants, marking his second setback in court on immigration. As with its temporary travel ban on six mostly Muslim nations now on appeal, the White House said it expected to ultimately win its case against sanctuary cities in the U.S. Supreme Court.“Once again, a single district judge -- this time in San Francisco -- has ignored federal immigration law to set a new immigration policy for the entire country,” the White House said in a statement. “San Francisco, and cities like it, are putting the well-being of criminal aliens before the safety of our citizens, and those city officials who authored these policies have the blood of dead Americans on their hands.”Trump added on Twitter on Wednesday, “First the Ninth Circuit rules against the ban & now it hits again on sanctuary cities-both ridiculous rulings. See you in the Supreme Court!”Forcing sanctuary cities to cooperate with deporting undocumented immigrants was a key component of the president’s campaign vow to rid the U.S. of “bad hombres” entering from Mexico. The ruling further frustrates an administration mired in litigation over immigration policy since its ninth day.The win by the city of San Francisco and its Silicon Valley neighbor, Santa Clara County, reinforces similar sanctuary policies in some of the nation’s largest cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. The decision was applauded by Democratic leaders and groups that also fought Trump’s travel ban, which was found by judges to violate the Constitution’s ban on religious bias.California ResistanceThe ruling also bolsters California’s aspirations to lead the resistance against the Trump administration’s agenda. This month, the state Senate passed the California Values Act, a measure that would give the entire state sanctuary status by prohibiting its agencies from sharing certain information with U.S. counterparts or detaining individuals on orders from Washington.While Trump had declared that sanctuary jurisdictions cause “immeasurable harm to the American people and to the very fabric of our republic," U.S. District Judge William Orrick agreed with the city and county that the the president’s Jan. 25 order violated the Constitution by threatening to deprive them of funding for local programs.Read More: Why ‘Sanctuary Cities’ Are a Target for Trump: QuickTake Q&AOrrick, in his order, found the city and county were likely to succeed on their claims that Trump was attempting to wield powers “exclusive to Congress," and that the executive order violates the Constitution’s Fifth and Tenth amendments. As such, the judge rejected the federal government’s argument that any injunction issued in the case should apply only to San Francisco and Santa Clara County.Tough Talk"These constitutional violations are not limited to San Francisco or Santa Clara, but apply equally to all states and local jurisdictions," Orrick said. The judge found that the Justice Department’s claim that the order’s scope was limited to a few grants was undermined by the Trump Administration’s tough talk against sanctuary cities.The judge, who was appointed by former President Barack Obama, scheduled a trial in the case for March 5.White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said the ruling reflects the regional judicial circuit that includes California’s federal courts “going bananas.”A Justice Department spokesman said the ruling doesn’t prohibit the federal government from taking action against communities that violate immigration laws.“We are confident we will ultimately prevail in the Supreme Court, just as we will prevail in our lawful efforts to impose immigration restrictions necessary to keep terrorists out of the United States,” the White House said in its statement.‘Lawful Authority’Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in March that the administration would use “all the lawful authority we have to make sure that our state and local officials are in sync with the federal government."Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based think-tank that supports Trump’s immigration policies, said the law allows the government to slash financial aid from jurisdictions that refuse to cooperate with immigration norms."This, like the travel ban rulings, is a purely political maneuver by a judge who opposes the Trump administration’s policies, and has nothing to do with law," Krikorian said in an email.On April 21, Sessions wrote letters to California and other cities to set a June 30 deadline for local governments to prove their compliance with federal policy. Those who miss the deadline will risk losing federal funds tied to the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant, a program that provides states and local governments with funding for law enforcement, prosecution and courts.Minimal LossesIn all, the U.S. Office of Justice Programs issued $376 million in Justice Assistance Grants in fiscal 2016, including $17 million to California. San Francisco and Santa Clara County didn’t receive the letter, according to San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera’s office. San Francisco may have lost as little as $1.5 million if Trump’s order had survived the court challenge.Although the executive order’s budgetary impact on sanctuary jurisdictions may be minimal, Sessions’s calls for compliance have remained fierce.“There are holdouts,” Sessions said in an April 11 speech to police chiefs. “Some mayors and city councils, and even a police chief and a sheriff here and there, are refusing to work with the federal government, choosing instead to protect the criminal aliens who harm public safety. For the sake of your communities, families, and children, work with us.”After Trump issued his executive order, the administration asked Congress to draft a 2017 spending bill that includes a provision to withhold federal funds from states and local governments that shield undocumented immigrants from deportation.Immigrants FearfulEven without funding cuts, the city and county argued the president’s order had already made their residents, especially immigrants, fearful that local police had been commandeered by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and would detain and deport them if they sought help in an emergency. Most sanctuary cities turn over criminals convicted of serious crimes to federal agents.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.ICE agents have executed regional detention and removal programs on a weekly basis to arrest “criminal aliens” en mass. From April 2 to April 6, ICE said it arrested 368 foreign nationals across the country, including in New York City, Denver, Colorado and Washington. One of them was a Guatemalan man who had been released by New Jersey authorities after Camden County declined to honor a detainer request filed by ICE.The cases are City and County of San Francisco v. Trump, 17-cv-00485, and County of Santa Clara v. Trump, 17-cv-00574, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-17/trump-effect-propels-u-s-house-campaigns-to-fundraising-record
The Trump Effect Propels House Campaigns to Record FundraisingTrump Drives Fundraising on Both Sides of the AislePolitical polarization in Washington produced a fundraising record as donors to both parties flooded U.S. House campaigns with $96.1 million in the first quarter of 2017, according to an analysis of filings with the Federal Election Commission.That’s a 45 percent increase over the $66.2 million raised during the same period two years ago, the previous record. The maximum contribution amount to campaigns was the same during both periods. Republican incumbents and challengers raised $49.8 million, while Democrats pulled in $46.3 million.Republican Donald Trump’s early actions as president have sparked a series of demonstrations and a surge of fundraising by groups on the left, but conservatives have also boosted their giving in the first months of the new administration.“Heightened partisanship is good for fundraising,” said Michael Beckel, manager of research, investigations and policy at Issue One, a group that advocates limiting the role of money in politics. “Republicans and Democrats are trying to keep their donor bases active at the dawn of the Trump presidency.”That’s been easy following Trump’s surprise victory in November, with both Democrats and Republicans having plenty of reasons to stay engaged. Immigration restrictions, regulatory rollbacks, and planned overhauls of the nation’s tax and health-care systems have encouraged donors on both sides of the aisle to keep giving.Big DonorsHouse Speaker Paul Ryan raised $22.4 million during the quarter through Team Ryan, his joint fundraising committee, which can accept contributions of as much as $247,700. Among donors giving the maximum were billionaires Ken Griffin, founder of investment firm Citadel LLC, and Charles Bartlett Johnson, the largest shareholder of Franklin Resources, the money-management business that operates Franklin and Templeton mutual funds. Julian Robertson, founder of the hedge fund Tiger Management, contributed $244,000.Helped by those deep-pocketed donors, Team Ryan outpaced the $17.2 million it raised during same period in 2016, the Wisconsin lawmaker’s first full quarter of fundraising after taking over as Speaker from John Boehner. Boehner raised $4.3 million in the first quarter of 2015.Ryan transferred $13.3 million during the quarter to the National Republican Congressional Committee, the main campaign arm for House Republicans, which said it raised $35.9 million overall, its highest total in the first three months of an election cycle. The committee will officially disclose its numbers to the FEC on April 20.Georgia ‘Referendum’The NRCC’s Democratic equivalent said it raised almost $31 million over the same period, also a record, with almost $13.7 million coming from 750,000 online donations. That’s an average donation of a little more than $18.House campaign committees for both parties collectively received $13.7 million in donations from small-dollar donors, or those giving $200 or less. Democrat Jon Ossoff alone raised $5.6 million. Ossoff, 30, a filmmaker and former congressional aide, has turned the April 18 special election for a Georgia House seat held by Republicans since Jimmy Carter was president -- and most recently by Tom Price, now Secretary of Health and Human Services -- into a referendum on Trump.Even without Ossoff’s record haul, campaigns for both parties took in $8.1 million, or more than twice as much from small-dollar donors as they did two years before.Filling Zinke’s SeatOther top recipients included Democratic Representatives John Lewis of Georgia, the civil-rights leader Trump dismissed as “all talk” in a tweet, and Keith Ellison of Minnesota, who ran unsuccessfully to become chairman of the Democratic National Committee and is a leader of the party’s progressive wing. Each received more than $500,000. So did Democrat Rob Quist, a musician who’s running in a Montana special election in May to fill the seat left vacant by Ryan Zinke, Trump’s Interior Secretary.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The surge of small-dollar donations has been driven by the contentious first months of the Trump administration, said John Wonderlich, executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, a non-profit group which promotes government transparency. He cited a number of divisive cabinet nominees, investigations into the extent of contacts between Trump’s campaign aides and Russian officials who attempted to influence the presidential election, and the stalled effort to repeal and replace Obamacare as prime examples.“Volatility inspires activism and increases donations,” Wonderlich said. “These are big policy questions that motivate donors. People are more likely to reach into their pocketbooks.”Unpopular CongressTrump’s campaign and joint fundraising committees, which reported their first quarter fundraising totals to the FEC on Friday, took in $10.3 million from small-dollar donors, an unprecedented amount for a president who won’t face voters again until 2020. House Republican campaigns raised $2.1 million from small donors during the same period.While Gallup pegged approval of the job Congress is doing at just 20 percent in early April, incumbents raised $77.4 million, with Republicans taking in $45.3 million. Still, Wonderlich said the Republican-led House’s inability so far to pass a bill to “repeal and replace” the Affordable Care Act might dampen contributors’ enthusiasm going forward.“It is hard to see the mess that was the health-care fight inspiring a lot of enthusiastic $20 donations,” he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-26/caution-prevails-for-asian-stocks-ahead-of-boj-markets-wrap
U.S. Stocks, Dollar Mixed Amid Policy Whirlwind: Markets WrapKuroda Says BOJ Will Maintain Rates Depending on EconomyU.S. stocks and the dollar were little changed after an up-and-down session amid a whirlwind of policy news as the Trump administration seeks to burnish its record ahead of its 100th day in office.The most important market news of the day.Get our markets daily newsletter.The S&P 500 Index eked out a gain to close near all-time highs amid a flurry of headlines on everything from Nafta to tax reform, the budget and health care. Energy producers tumbled after crude slid to $49 a barrel on concern over a supply glut, while earnings lifted technology indexes to fresh records. Amazon.com Inc. and Alphabet Inc. climbed after hours as results topped estimates, while Intel Corp. slipped.The Mexican peso pared gains and Canada’s dollar was little changed amid mixed signals from the White House on the Nafta regional trade agreement. The euro weakened after the European Central Bank signaled its commitment to stimulus even as the region’s economy firms. Gold was little changed and emerging-market assets slipped.Politics remained in focus this week as the Trump administration unveiled a hastily assembled plan to cut taxes on Wednesday and gave mixed signals on its intentions for the North American trade agreement. The machinations left markets unsure of the policy direction, with lots of discussion and few concrete actions on which to trade. Congress is also considering a continuing resolution to avoid a government shutdown, while House Republicans attempt to revive legislation to repeal Obamacare.The U.S. political turmoil overshadowed the ECB’s latest policy commentary. President Mario Draghi showed growing enthusiasm about the state of the euro-area economy, while cautioning that inflation pressures remain too weak to contemplate paring back stimulus.Read our Markets Live blog here.Here are some key upcoming events investors are watching:U.S. GDP is due Friday. It’s projected to show the economy expanded at a 1 percent annualized rate in the first quarter, the weakest pace in a year.Earnings will contribute to trading on U.S. markets Friday, with a flood of postmarket releases setting the tone.Here are the main moves in markets:StocksThe S&P 500 rose 0.1 percent to 2,388.86 at 4 p.m. in New York.The Nasdaq 100 Index jumped 0.5 percent to a record, while the Nasdaq Composite ended at an all-time high.In late trading, Alphabet rose 3.7 percent and Amazon added 3.6 percent as of 4:28 p.m. Intel lost 3.6 percent.PayPal jumped and Under Armour Inc. surged amid earnings announcements. Energy shares lost 1.1 percent.The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent after climbing for six straight sessions to the highest level since August 2015.Deutsche Bank dropped 3.7 percent after debt and equity trading missed estimated in the first quarter.Tokyo stocks fell for the first time in six days and the yen slipped. The Bank of Japan kept its policies unchanged while lowering its inflation forecast, underscoring that any exit from its monetary easing remains far away.CurrenciesThe Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index added less than 0.1 percent, after increasing 0.3 percent on Wednesday.The euro saw choppy trading during the ECB press conference, rising to 1.0933 from its interim low as Draghi’s more upbeat tone appeared to align with trader expectations that had built over the course of the week. It traded lower by 0.3 percent to $1.0874.The Mexican peso rose 0.7 percent, paring a gain of 1.4 percent as the White House continued to give mixed signals on Nafta. The peso slid 1.7 percent on Wednesday.The Canadian dollar was little changed, erasing earlier gains.BondsTreasuries advanced, with the yield curve steepening, as a risk-off sentiment took hold across markets after posturing by lawmakers in Washington.The 10-year Treasury yield slipped to 2.29 percent. The rate fell three basis points to 2.30 percent on Wednesday, after climbing for five straight sessions.German benchmark yields slid five basis points to 0.296 percent after the ECB’s signal that inflation remains tepid.Swedish government bonds rallied after the central bank unexpectedly extended its bond-buying program, prompting investors to bet that policy makers will delay a rate increase.CommoditiesOil dropped to a one-month low as Libya reopened its biggest field and U.S. crude production climbed a 10th week. Futures slid 1.3 percent to settle at $48.97 a barrel in New York.Gold futures advanced 0.1 percent to $1,265.50 an ounce in New York. Contracts remain below the pre-election level of $1,305.06 an ounce. Prices cratered more than 13 percent through Dec. 22. They ground back to $1,289.76 this month after Trump’s airstrikes on Syria and Afghanistan.Iron ore’s sell-off may be set to worsen. The world’s largest mining company says that global supplies are poised to increase in the coming years as low-cost producers add more tons to the market, delivering its warning just hours after a similar red flag from the World Bank.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/trump-s-15-corporate-tax-seen-as-gambit-as-he-unveils-plan
Trump’s 15% Corporate Tax Plan May Just Be His Opening GambitTrump Team Pitches Tax Plan to CongressPresident Donald Trump’s call to slash the corporate tax rate to 15 percent -- a number that many economists say would boost the deficit so much that the cut would be short-lived -- may be less about policy and more about deal-making.“Is this an opening, somewhat unrealistic gambit to a negotiation?” asked James Sweeney, who leads the U.S. economics team and co-heads the global strategy and economics team at Credit Suisse. “And the broader economics -- what are the other components to tax reform? We’d be silly to pencil in the 15 percent rate and adjust our expectations accordingly.”As a candidate, Trump portrayed his tax plan -- which included the 15 percent tax rate for corporations -- as more a bargaining position than a policy prescription. “When I’m negotiating with the Democrats, I’m putting in a plan,” he told ABC News last May. “I’m putting in my optimum plan. It’s going to be negotiated. It’s not going to stay there.”Christopher Ailman, CIO at California State Teachers’ Retirement System, weighs in on tax reform.Source: BloombergIf that’s still how President Trump thinks, then his administration is scheduled on Wednesday to make its opening bid on taxes -- just days ahead of his 100th day in office. White House officials say he’ll offer a list of principles -- and those that have surfaced so far bear a striking resemblance to the plan Trump pitched as a candidate.On Tuesday evening, a White House official familiar with the president’s plan laid out a few other pieces of the plan -- also familiar to those who followed Trump’s campaign: He wants the same 15 percent tax rate applied to earnings of so-called pass-through companies, and he wants a 10 percent tax rate applied to U.S. companies’ stockpiled offshore earnings. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin confirmed the plan’s 15 percent rate for corporations and small business during an event in Washington on Wednesday morning.Ryan’s PlanOne thing Trump doesn’t want: a border-adjusted tax, of the type proposed by House Speaker Paul Ryan. Ryan wants to replace the existing 35 percent corporate income tax with a 20 percent levy on U.S. companies’ domestic sales and imports. Their exports would be exempt. Trump doesn’t intend to include the provision in his proposals Wednesday, said the White House official, who asked not to be named because the discussions are private.Ryan said Wednesday that even the BAT’s backers agree “it needs to be modified.” Regarding Trump’s plans, he said: “We’ve seen a sneak preview of it, we like it a lot, we’re on the same page” with about 80 percent of the items on Trump’s list. “At the end of the day, where we all agree is we want the most internationally competitive tax system,” he said.Eliminating or modifying the BAT would probably leave a major revenue hole in any tax plan. The tax was estimated to raise more than $1 trillion over 10 years -- revenue that would have helped cover the cost of the business tax cuts. Achieving a revenue-neutral tax plan is important, largely because of rules set up by the U.S. Senate to bypass that chamber’s normal requirement for legislation to have 60 votes. Trump’s Republican party controls only 52 of the Senate’s 100 seats.If Senate leaders are unable to muster 60 votes for a tax bill, they could still pass one with a simple majority -- but only if the legislation didn’t add to the federal deficit outside the normal 10-year window that lawmakers apply to budget legislation.Representative Adam Kinzinger, an Illinois Republican, said passing tax legislation would be more difficult than overhauling health care, requiring a compromise between the plans proposed by Congress and the White House.“Of course the White House is going to have their view of it,” he said Wednesday on MSNBC. “The two will get married together at some point. It probably won’t look like either of ours in total but hopefully it will be something that will put a little jet fuel in the economy.”Three YearsFor cuts of the size Trump envisions, that most likely means they’d have to be temporary, and perhaps very short-lived. On Tuesday, the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation said in a letter to Ryan that a corporate tax rate of 20 percent -- five percentage points higher than Trump has proposed -- would create deficits in the long run even if it remained in effect for just three years.Foreshadowing that finding, Ryan’s chief tax counsel, George Callas, told a banking conference in Washington last week that Congress might have to limit a corporate tax rate cut to just two years -- if it was part of a plan that didn’t achieve revenue neutrality.Such a temporary cut would have no effect on business decisions, he said. “It would not cause anyone to build a factory,” he said. “It would not cause anyone to restructure their supply chain.”It wouldn’t even cause much joy in corporate America, said Albert Liguori, an international tax lawyer and managing director at corporate strategy and turnaround firm Alvarez & Marsal.“Businesses would rather see the certainty of permanency and be more certain that a tax bill will be passed,” Liguori said. “The 20 percent range -- companies would be more than happy with that because it’s reliably in line with other countries.”Dynamic ScoringMnuchin has said that Trump’s tax cuts would be revenue neutral -- in part because they’d lead to rapid economic growth that would help boost federal revenue. Trump would use such dynamic scoring -- that is, accounting for economic changes caused by his plan -- to evaluate the revenue effects, Mnuchin said. But even with resulting growth, economists of all stripes say there’s little chance that Trump’s proposed 15 percent rate, absent the $1.1 trillion that BAT would raise to underwrite rate cuts, could be revenue neutral.Trump expressed his frustration with recent economic growth rates Wednesday, saying that trade deficits were to blame.“The U.S. recorded its slowest economic growth in five years (2016),” Trump tweeted. “GDP up only 1.6%. Trade deficits hurt the economy very badly.”Another leaked provision of Trump’s plan, the 15 percent rate for pass-through businesses, creates its own challenges. The tax would apply to small businesses, hedge funds and Trump’s own business empire -- firms that organize themselves as partnerships or limited-liability companies. Under current law, those companies pass their earnings and deductions through to their owners, who are then taxed at their individual income-tax rates. The highest such rate is 39.6 percent.Under Trump’s plan, high-earning individuals would have a keen incentive to turn themselves into companies for tax purposes -- to take advantage of the lower rate. Trump’s campaign advisers said they’d work with Congress to figure out a way to prevent that. There’s also the revenue effect of making the change; Roberton Williams, a tax expert at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, said the pass-through provision alone could increase the deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars.Revenue RaiserThe repatriation-tax proposal, on the other hand, would be a revenue-raiser -- but it’s unclear whether it’d be a one-time event or one that would carry forward.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The tax represents an attempt to reconcile a quirk of the U.S. tax system. Unlike most developed nations, the U.S. applies its 35 percent corporate income tax to companies on their global earnings, not just their U.S. income. But companies can defer taxes on their overseas profits until they decide to return those earnings to the U.S., or “repatriate” them. During his campaign, Trump spoke of ending such deferral, but it’s unclear whether he intends to stick to that plan now.In their eagerness to defer U.S. taxes, companies have stockpiled an estimated $2.6 trillion offshore -- though Trump has said repeatedly he believes the number is far higher.Ryan and House leaders have their own version of a repatriation tax also -- they’d impose an 8.75 percent rate on earnings held offshore as cash or cash equivalents and a 3.5 percent rate on earnings that have been invested otherwise.Corporate Non-StarterA final tax package is bound to be the result of compromise. Some CEOs are eager for that deal-making to get under way -- even if it means deficits.“The signal from the administration this year that they’re willing to accept a higher deficit in the near term in order to get tax reform through makes sense and I support it,” AutoNation chairman and chief executive Michael Jackson told Bloomberg News.But for others, a tax cut of just a few years is a nonstarter, said Mark Everson, a former Internal Revenue Service commissioner and now vice chairman of tax consulting firm AlliantGroup.“There’s no doubt that business owners large or small want permanency,” said Everson. “They want to know the rules of the road before they make hiring or investment decisions or projections out 10 or 20 years.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-22/mnuchin-calls-imf-s-u-s-forecast-conservative-as-he-chases-3
Mnuchin Calls IMF's U.S. Forecast Conservative as He Chases 3%Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin called the International Monetary Fund’s outlook for the U.S. economy a “little conservative” as he repeated the Trump administration’s goal of getting to 3 percent growth or faster.“The U.S. economy is well positioned,” Mnuchin said Saturday in a conversation with IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde during the organization’s spring meetings in Washington. “We’ve been in a period post financial crisis where we’ve just been in sub-optimal growth. We believe we can get to 3 percent or more sustainable economic growth.”Lagarde, left, and Mnuchin participate in a panel at the IMF Spring Meetings.Photographer: Zach Gibson/AFP via Getty ImagesThe Trump administration is planning tax cuts and increased infrastructure spending to help achieve its goal of lifting economic growth. The IMF in updated forecasts this week left its U.S. economic growth forecast unchanged at 2.3 percent this year, while raising the global outlook slightly to 3.5 percent. The IMF expects 2.5 percent expansion for the U.S. in 2018.Despite Lagarde’s status as the head of an international organization that espouses globalization, and Mnuchin’s position as Treasury secretary for a president who rode to victory in part by harshly criticizing such forces, the conversation was gentle and the pair joked at times throughout the half-hour event.Mnuchin said the administration is focused on policies that help the U.S. economy and also support global growth. The president and officials are reaching out to business leaders and seeking to implement reforms that will pay for themselves with growth, he said.Campaign PromisesWhether U.S. growth shows a sustainable pickup may depend in part on an economic shake-up promised by candidate Donald Trump that hasn’t quite taken shape since he took office. While Trump has ordered reviews of key trading relationships, he’s backed down from a promise to label China a currency manipulator and a Nafta revamp has faced delays.See here: Trump trade stance continues to shake-up global consensusMnuchin has anchored his goals as Treasury secretary -- which include tax reform and regulatory relief -- to doubling the pace of domestic growth to as much as 4 percent. Economists are mostly skeptical that pickup will happen, as those surveyed by Bloomberg see expansion of about 2.2 percent to 2.3 percent through 2019.Mnuchin is regularly reminded of the legacy of economic growth the Trump administration wants to solidify. A framed copy of a newspaper article announcing Mnuchin as Trump’s choice as Treasury chief hangs on his office wall in the Treasury Department, with a signed note from Trump that mentions “5% GDP.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/balance-of-power-trump-s-overseas-tax-grab
Balance of Power: Trump’s Overseas Tax GrabTrump’s Overseas Tax GrabFor U.S. presidents, the $2.6 trillion in profits held offshore by American companies has always been a tantalizing prize that's stayed just out of reach.Now Donald Trump has a plan to get his hands on that stash with an offer to let companies like Microsoft and Apple bring it home at a tax rate of just 10 percent, a source tells Bloomberg's Jennifer Jacobs. What's more, the idea could help his much-anticipated tax plan coming Wednesday to overcome resistance among Republicans in Congress.Repatriation could bring his lopsided overhaul closer to balance by financing tax cuts for corporations, high-earners and the middle class -- cheering conservatives. He also could sink the money into popular bipartisan programs like infrastructure spending -- cheering Democrats, who see lots of well-paying jobs for construction unions.But there's a big note of caution. President Barack Obama and Speaker Paul Ryan both dreamed of a repatriation-for-infrastructure deal and could never get it off the ground. Because the tricky part of a comprehensive tax reform plan is the word “comprehensive” -- meaning that you make just as many enemies as you do friends by changing every part of the tax code.So Trump is still a long way from getting his plan through Congress, but tapping overseas cash is sure to help.[Image: President Donald Trump confers with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan at the U.S. Capitol on March 16, 2017, in Washington.]President Donald Trump confers with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan at the U.S. Capitol on March 16, 2017, in Washington.Photographer: Win McNamee/Getty ImagesTrump Also Wants to Cut Business Taxes | Trump will call for a reduction in the top income tax rate on pass-through businesses -- a category that includes Mom-and-Pop grocers, hedge funds and Trump’s own empire -- to 15 percent, down from 39.6 percent. Trump’s team sounded upbeat about getting Republican lawmakers on board, but some are still stinging after Trump rejected a border adjusted tax favored by Speaker Ryan.Elsewhere Around the GlobeSeoul Is Still Defenseless Against Kim's Missiles | After weeks of saber rattling by Trump, the South Korean capital is still vulnerable to a missile attack from its northern neighbor. While the U.S. military started installing its new Thaad missile defense system overnight, it won't be ready until later this year. As Tony Capaccio reports, it also turns out that Trump's “armada” won't be able to help defend Seoul because the aircraft carrier strike group doesn't have the capability to shoot down North Korea's ballistic rockets.China Launches a New Aircraft Carrier | China is celebrating the launch of its first domestically built aircraft carrier and only the second in its fleet. While still years away from deployment and no match for the U.S.'s nuclear-powered supercarriers, it gives President Xi Jinping a historic milestone ahead of a reshuffle at the top of the Communist Party late this year.Obamacare Repeal Gets New Lease on Life | Trump’s effort got a boost when several conservative holdouts said they’d sign on to a revised bill giving states more flexibility. Moderate Republicans still don’t love the plan, but all sides are proceeding cautiously, realizing they can’t afford to fall short again on such a key campaign promise after the first effort collapsed.Macron Takes Aim at Le Pen Country | Macron campaigns at a Whirlpool factory on Wednesday that's moving to Poland. It's a bold move: Hollande's presidency was tarnished after he once climbed on top of a union truck and vowed to defend workers at a blast furnace plant, only for it to be later shut down. But Macron's lead is solid, and Le Pen's only hope might hinge on a low turnout on May 7.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Trump's Foreign Policy Doctrine | Based on his missile strike in Syria, Trump has staked out an approach that sets boundaries for foreign leaders but avoids prolonged combat, according to his chief of staff, Reince Priebus. The president demonstrated the doctrine's first component last week when he intervened to toughen language in a State Department letter on Iran's nuclear program, an administration official said. The test will be how he handles countries with greater military capability than Syria.Will U.K. Pollsters Fail Again? | France's political forecasters got it right on Sunday, but in the U.K. pollsters are bracing for another test of their forecasting after misfires on Brexit and the two elections before that. With polls currently suggesting a landslide for Theresa May on June 8, Rob Hutton looks at the pitfalls they'll have to avoid this time.And Finally... The Trump trade isn’t an anomaly. It turns out that populists are good for stocks. Researchers at the University of Bonn examined 27 comparable market rallies in the past century and found that stocks tend to benefit, along with bonds to a lesser extent.
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-26/pelosi-makes-shrewd-case-for-pro-life-democrats
Pelosi Makes Shrewd Case for Pro-Life DemocratsDemocrats have made health care a moral issue, based on a compelling argument, passionately held, that everyone deserves access to care by virtue of being human.That's one context to keep in mind as the party's powerful pro-choice contingent attempts to transform a morally contentious issue, abortion, into a health-care issue that -- unlike the party's approach to health care generally -- is stripped of moral content.Last week, Naral Pro-Choice America president Ilyse Hogue condemned  the Democratic National Committee's support for Heath Mello, a candidate for mayor of Omaha, Nebraska, who, she said, would deny women's "basic rights and freedom." As a state legislator, Mello had previously supported strict abortion regulations.The attack produced the desired kowtow, as my conservative colleague Ramesh Ponnuru laments . DNC chairman Tom Perez said, more or less, that Mello had come around to right thinking on the issue and that all Democrats are pro-choice now: "Every candidate who runs as a Democrat should do the same because every woman should be able to make her own health choices. Period."But at least one influential pro-choice Democrat isn't ready to shut down diversity of opinion on the topic. On Sunday, House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi was asked by NBC's Chuck Todd if her party still had room for pro-life members. Her answer bore no resemblance to what her party's chairman said days earlier."Of course," said  Pelosi, whose roots go back to a Catholic childhood in Baltimore's Little Italy. "I have served many years in Congress with members who have not shared my very positive — my family would say aggressive — position on promoting a woman's right to choose."Pelosi's pro-choice credentials are unimpeachable. So are her math skills. Polls  consistently show that plenty of Democrats, including youthful  ones, do not support unrestricted abortion rights. A CBS News poll  in January found that a third of Democrats supported stricter limits on abortion.To become speaker, Pelosi needs to flip two dozen House districts from Republican to Democratic in 2018. To win some of those seats, the party will need candidates capable of strategic shows of independence from the party line. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer gets that, which is why he said on Monday that Democrats are a "pro-choice" party and a "big tent" party.Democrats found a useful marketing tool when they settled on the phrase "pro-choice." It embodies the principle -- a woman has the right to choose -- without casting pro-life views as illegitimate or intolerable. The phrase gives breathing room not only to different views, but to the varied moral weights that Americans assign to abortion.According to a 2016 Pew poll , one-third of Americans say abortion is not a moral issue. For them, perhaps, it's a matter of women's "health choices." But most Americans, including many who identify as pro-choice, perceive abortion as an act with moral implications, requiring a political calculus that can incorporate a range of moral qualms. Roe v. Wade, the brilliantly muddled , still enduring middle ground in the rancorous debate, is a reflection -- and protector -- of just such qualms.As long as those qualms exist, efforts to enforce a rigid party dogma will be corrosive and self-defeating. Partisan polarization  has sorted the parties into opposing camps on abortion. But there is still room in both parties for individual conscience to express itself. Efforts to extinguish that are bad politics. And maybe bad morality.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-24/-disarray-is-preface-to-power-for-democrats
'Disarray' Is Preface to Power for Democrats"The Democrats are in disarray." That was the first line of a classic Hendrik Hertzberg column in March 2006 in the New Yorker . Hertzberg didn't actually believe his own sentence; he made it clear that he was just parroting what many of the in-the-know political reporters and pundits were then saying.He went on to explain that parties out of power, as the Democrats then were, are always a bit like driftwood, bobbing on the political seas, waiting for the right storm surge to bring them to shore.Without either a federal power center or an imminent Presidential election — without a President, a Speaker of the House, a Senate Majority Leader, or a Presidential nominee — no institutional instrument or leader has the clout to impose a consensus. Democrats advocate a spectrum of more or less similar positions — an array, not a disarray….About eight months after he wrote that, with Republican President George W. Bush resorting to rope-a-dope against the battery of headlines from Iraq, Democrats took control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. Two years after that, they gained still more seats in Congress and elected their most talented and improbable candidate -- a young, cosmopolitan, mixed-race intellectual -- to the White House.The following two years, starting in 2009, produced not an array (or disarray) of proposals, but a coordinated blitz of liberal legislation. It included the Affordable Care Act, that ginormous little engine that could and indeed still does, despite the distilled hatred of every Republican ostensibly in a position to dismantle it.The era of hope and change is dead and gone. Democrats are once again shut out of power. And "disarray" demands an encore.The 2016 Democratic nominee for president proved incapable of defeating a crude, media-savvy buffoon. With Donald Trump's victory in November, Democrats lost their last foothold in Washington. Republicans dominate the statehouses. Meanwhile, the New York Times reported  on Friday that the Democrats are so divided that a mayoral race in Omaha, Nebraska, provides sufficient stakes for a fratricidal brawl.From the right, Noah Rothman writes  in Commentary that the Democratic "brand is in crisis," with the party so disjointed and out to lunch it faces an existential threat with a shrug. "What are Democrats rallying around beside the disagreeable personality" of Trump? Rothman asks.Matthew Continetti, writing in the Washington Free Beacon, likewise sees Democrats suffering "from the staleness, the remoteness of their policy message." The party is unable to shake its groggy, disgruntled base out of its Bernie Sanders stupor, Continetti said:But the crowds are there for Bernie. They are the left-wing version of the voters who brought us Trump: anti-establishment, anti-globalization, more interested in assembly-line security than in Silicon Valley disruption.Continetti sees the Democratic Party as the next target to fall to political rage against elites. "The GOP was turned upside down by the revolt against the professions," he wrote, "and the Democrats are next."From the left, Matt Taibbi observes a party in ruins. Pondering "Shattered," a new book  on Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign by the knowledgeable, well-sourced reporters Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes, Taibbi wrote :Shattered is what happens when political parties become too disconnected from their voters. Even if you think the election was stolen, any Democrat who reads this book will come away believing he or she belongs to a party stuck in a profound identity crisis. Trump or no Trump, the Democrats need therapy -- and soon.It sounds pretty grim. And why shouldn't it? Democrats have no remedy for the contradictions of globalization, which has enriched the party's donor base and elevated an elite strain of multiculturalism, while helping to crush the industrial unions and workers who once powered Democratic campaigns.Democrats must sustain their unwieldy feminist, multiracial, multiclass coalition in the face of a virulent cultural backlash at home and an ugly anti-liberal trend abroad. They must somehow chart a coherent political and policy course from a position of historic political weakness. Meanwhile, their marquee politician is a septuagenarian opportunist who refuses to label himself a Democrat and uses the party more as a foil than as a foundation on which to build a viable majority.It's hard to look at this dead tide and conclude that the Democratic Party is ready to mount another electoral wave. Yet it very well may. As it did in 2006, the party mostly agrees on most of the big issues most of the time. Or as Democratic pollster Paul Maslin put it in an email responding to the notion of Dems in disarray: "Disarray about what?"At present, Democrats are under no obligation to solve the world's problems, or calm the waters roiling so many democracies, including the U.S. "Trump is the story," Maslin said. "We simply have to be the strong opposition, recruit candidates, raise money and be prepared to exploit his weaknesses."Democratic strategist Simon Rosenberg strokes a similar power chord. "Of course Democratic politics is going to be messy and fractious these next few years. That's always true for parties without the White House," he emailed. "But what is also true is that Dems have had very strong, encouraging showings in early special elections, and our base is energized and ready to fight hard these next two years."Evidence thus far suggests that President Trump is little different from candidate Trump: an ignorant and reckless man of fractured attention and dangerously varying abilities. It's possible, of course, that the shape of Trump's emergent presidency will change. His family's grift  and his own callous incompetence  could easily be eclipsed by crisis, including events that benefit him politically. But given his obvious unfitness for high office, Trump will most likely continue to be a messy failure, come what may.These are complex and uncertain times. Democrats lack the answers to many difficult questions. They haven't identified new leaders who can articulate new policies to address new (along with stubborn old) challenges.For now, however, Democrats don't need the answer to every question. They need only convince voters, by November 2018, that they have the answer to one question: Who can replace these flailing, Trump-soiled Republicans?(Corrects publication where Matthew Continetti's article appears in eighth paragraph. )This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-25/voters-only-hope-is-a-democratic-congress
Voters' Only Hope Is a Democratic CongressThis was supposed to be the year that Republicans consolidated their control of the federal government and enacted their policies uninhibited. But that "year of governance" has turned into the year of elections.Why have Americans become transfixed by elections -- in California, Kansas, Georgia and Montana? Because with the new Republican coalition showing itself unable to govern, Americans must look ahead to some future arrangement that could change the dysfunctional status quo.It wasn't supposed to be this way. After his electoral win in November, Donald Trump laid out an aggressive plan for his first 100 days in office, which he called his "Contract With the American Voter." In it he called for renegotiating trade deals, reforming the tax structure, and repealing and replacing Obamacare. With Republicans holding a large majority in the House, plus a small majority in the Senate, some version of Trump's aggression plan seemed like a reasonable possibility.But looking back, it's hard to point to any significant legislative wins. The effort to repeal and replace Obamacare fell short. Old trade deals remain in place. The timetable for tax reform continues to slip further into the future as Republicans struggle to come to an agreement on what they want and how to pay for it. Even the prospects for avoiding a government shutdown have become uncertain as the Trump administration pushes to include funding for a border wall in the spending package, which would likely eliminate the possibility of garnering any Democratic votes.The inability of the ruling party to govern is what has led to so much fascination with special elections. From 2011 to 2016, a Republican Congress blocked a Democratic president. People could understand the stasis. Now it looks like a Trump presidency working with a Republican Congress will struggle to pass legislation as well.While it's only been a few elections so far, special elections in California's 34th congressional district, Kansas' 4th, and Georgia's 6th have all shown sizable swings toward Democrats. An upcoming special election for Montana's lone House seat looks to be competitive, even though in 2016 a Republican won by 16 points. Should this pattern follow through to 2018, Democrats could retake the House, removing both House Speaker Paul Ryan and the House Freedom Caucus as bottlenecks on the legislative process.Could a Democratic House majority, even one led by former and perhaps future speaker Nancy Pelosi, work with Trump? It may be hard to envision today, but then again, a few months ago it seemed implausible that Republicans holding the White House and Congress would be unable to govern.There are pragmatic reasons both Trump and the Democrats would want to work together, at least on one issue: Obamacare. Trump would like to blame Obamacare's implosion on Democrats, but voters rarely blame the out-of-power party for anything. Ultimately, Obamacare risk lies with whoever controls government. If Democrats control the House again, they and Trump will both be motivated to salvage the program and avoid blame.Voters are desperately interested in special elections this year because a new Congress is their only hope for anything to happen in Washington.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-11/how-to-tell-if-democrats-are-gaining-momentum-for-2018
How to Tell If Democrats Are Gaining Momentum for 2018There is a lot of needless hype about special elections and what they mean for Democrats’ chances for taking the House in the 2018 midterms. But don't dismiss all of it: Success in these contests really could make or break their chances, and for a reason that is not very hyped at all.The second House special election of this cycle is Tuesday in the very Republican fourth district of Kansas, where voters will replace Mike Pompeo, who Trump promoted to CIA director.  The first was in a very Democratic district in California, and two Democrats advanced to the final round under that state's "top two" system.There's been some interest in the Kansas contest because Republicans have been spending money in what should be an easy win. But it could also be a case of overkill, given how much money there is in politics these days. Still, the Democrats are likely to do better there than they did in 2016, just as they did even better in the California special.Instagram: Instagram post by Jon OssoffIf Democrat James Thompson can even come close in Kansas, we're going to hear plenty of hype about the 2018 midterms, and the hype will turn up to 11 if Democrats win either in Georgia's 6th district (initial contest on April 18, with a runoff likely to follow) or in Montana (May 25). Both are Republican seats, but much more competitive than Kansas 4. Even if Democrats go 0-for-3 in these races, you'll hear lots of people saying that coming close in Republicans seats proves Democrats have the momentum going into 2018.It may seem reasonable to draw that connection, but it's mostly wrong. Presidential approval and the general political atmosphere do have an effect on special elections, so we can expect Donald Trump's unpopularity to hurt Republicans, as it will (if it continues) in the regularly scheduled midterms. Measuring the size of that effect in a handful of atypical, off-year contests won't really tell us anything about what will happen in 2018 that we didn't already know. Special elections just aren't useful as hints of what will happen in the next regular general election; there's just way too much noise in individual contests.However, incumbency still matters -- so a Democratic win in Georgia 6 would increase the Democrats' chances in that seat in 2018, and therefore reduce by one the overall number of seats they need to gain a House majority. Democrats will hold 194 seats after the California vacancy is filled, leaving them 24 short of the 218 needed. Every single seat helps.The outcome of special elections could affect the midterms for another reason. Right now, dozens of skilled politicians are deciding whether 2018 is a good year to run for higher office. Dozens of incumbents are choosing whether to seek re-election or to retire. That's at the statewide and U.S. House levels; add in state legislatures and local offices and hundreds are making those decisions. The more they all believe it will be a good year for Democrats, the more likely Democratic candidates will step up. By the same token, more Republican politicians will retreat.In campaigns for Congress and state legislatures, the talent of candidates matter enormously. Incumbency is important (certainly in U.S. House elections), so every Republican who retires rather than face a tough race opens up an improved chance for Democrats to pick up a seat. And while Democrats are currently enjoying a windfall of first-time candidates -- which almost certainly is good for the party in the long run -- research on House elections shows that experienced politicians who have won any previous election tend to be the most successful candidates. Those candidates tend to be most sensitive to perceptions about the partisan electoral climate, in large part because they may have to give up a position they currently hold in order to run for higher office.In this way, expectations about elections can become self-fulfilling prophesies. Special elections can contribute to those expectations, even if rationally no new information gets produced (in other words, if all those special elections do is demonstrate the predictable consequences of Trump's low approval ratings).So mostly resist the commotion around these elections, which at best will shift one or two seats to the Democrats and may well just return same-party candidates from each open seat. But don't ignore them completely; they still can matter, even if the fuss is overblown.I'm a big fan of U.S. institutions over their British cousins, but I have to admit that "by-elections" is a much better term for these not-all-that-special events than "special elections."This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-18/senate-democrats-in-trump-states-double-their-fundraising-pace
Senate Democrats in Trump States Double Fundraising PaceTrump Drives Fundraising on Both Sides of the AisleSenate Democrats who may face the most challenging 2018 re-election contests are building robust campaign bank accounts as they benefit from an outpouring generated by the party’s desire to challenge President Donald Trump.The 10 Democrats expected to defend seats in states that Trump won in November collectively raised about $18.8 million during the first three months of the year, based on information from the campaigns and public records. That’s more than double the $8.3 million they netted in the same quarter six years earlier. The group’s total campaign bank balance is about $32 million, up from $17.4 million at this time in 2011.“There are a lot of riled up Democratic donors out there right now and it’s a good time to hit them up for money,” said Robert Boatright, a political science professor at Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts.It’s easier for the senators in states Trump won to raise money because Democratic donors are already focused on 2018, and holding those Senate seats is critical to their aims, said Bob Biersack, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics.But the Democrats’ early surge won’t necessarily deter any Republican challengers, said Biersack, a 30-year veteran of the Federal Election Commission.High Stakes“Republicans aren’t going to be scared off by a big war chest,” he said. “They have evidence from 2016 that they have a chance.”Republicans also recorded strong fundraising in the first quarter, including by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Trump’s 2020 re-election campaign.Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, one of Trump’s 2016 presidential primary rivals, reported raising $1.7 million and had $5.2 million cash on hand. That compared to $942,885 and $965,153 in the first quarter of 2011.The stakes will be high for both parties in 2018. Republicans, who control 52 of the 100 Senate seats, can gain a filibuster-proof majority if they win eight more. Democrats will have their first major opportunity to challenge Trump at the polls.Each side has its disadvantages. The party in power traditionally loses seats in a new president’s first midterm election. But Democrats have more Senate seats to defend; 34 will be up for grabs, and 25 of them are held by Democrats and two allied independents. Democrats may be aided if Trump’s approval rating remains at the historically low levels set during his first few months in office.Missouri RaceAmong the 10 Senate Democrats in states Trump won, Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri appears to have raised the most during the quarter. Her campaign reported collecting $2.8 million and having $3 million in the bank.Republican Congresswoman Ann Wagner, a potential McCaskill opponent in 2018, reported raising $804,264 and had $2.8 million in her campaign account. McCaskill is viewed as a top target for Republicans because Trump won the state by 19 percentage points.In Pennsylvania, which Trump carried by 1 percentage point, Senator Bob Casey’s campaign said he’d raised $2.7 million. Three Republicans have officially declared their candidacy, including a state legislator and a county commissioner who served as a delegate for Trump. In 2016, the Senate race in Pennsylvania between incumbent Republican Pat Toomey and Democrat Katie McGinty saw a record $166.7 million spent, including $119.6 million by independent groups.Ohio CashGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, where Trump’s victory margin was 8.6 percentage points, reported collecting $2.4 million. Brown has $5 million in the bank, twice as much as he did at this point six years ago. His opponent then was Republican state Treasurer Josh Mandel, who’s running again and who already has $2.4 million cash on hand after raising $1.1 million in the first quarter, according to FEC filings provided by his campaign. Mandel might face a contested primary against Representative Pat Tiberi, who raised $1.4 million in the first quarter of 2017 and has $6.3 million in his campaign fund, FEC records show.Senator Bill Nelson reported an account balance of $3.6 million. Florida is the largest state and has the most media markets among those surveyed for this story.In one of the states with the fewest media markets, North Dakota’s Democratic Senator Heidi Heitkamp reported raising $1.6 million during the quarter and has about $2 million in the bank. She wasn’t an incumbent six years ago.Senator Joe Donnelly of Indiana, who also first won his seat in 2012, raised $1.3 million and had $2.6 million in the bank. Another senator among the 10 Democrats running for a second term, Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, raised $2.2 million and had $2.5 million cash on hand.Biggest MarginSenator Joe Manchin of West Virginia raised the least among the 10 Democratic senators in Trump states. He pulled in $552,576, compared to $528,700 six years ago. He ended the quarter with $2.2 million in the bank, up from $861,125 in 2011. Among the 10 states, Trump won his biggest margin in West Virginia, 42 percentage points.Democratic Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, where Trump had his narrowest victory among the 10, raised $1.3 million and had $4.3 million in the bank. That’s up from $1.1 million and $3 million in 2011.In Montana, Democratic Senator Jon Tester has more than twice as much in his campaign account as he did six years ago. His campaign said he raised $2 million during the quarter and has $3.2 million in the bank. Trump won that state by 20.5 percentage points.Campaign-finance rules don’t require Senate candidates to submit their fundraising data online, unlike House candidates, so most of the totals for the quarter were provided by campaigns. The process of mailing and digitizing the reports often means the official records aren’t available until about a week after the filing deadline.Tester’s campaign said he would file his report electronically because he “believes in transparency.” He’s also introduced legislation requiring members of the Senate to file online, something his campaign says would “save taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-18/gop-targets-trillion-dollar-tax-breaks-for-democratic-states
GOP Targets Trillion-Dollar Tax Break for Democratic StatesGOP Targets Trillion-Dollar Tax BreakConservative activists and House Republican leaders want to eliminate a trillion-dollar tax break that mostly benefits wealthy filers in Democratic states, a push that could further imperil President Donald Trump’s hopes of winning bipartisan support for a tax overhaul.Ever since the inception of the federal income tax in 1913, taxpayers have been allowed to deduct the state and local income taxes they pay from their taxable income. Anti-tax crusaders, including Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, say the deduction represents bad policy.“When you allow people to deduct their state and local taxes against the federal tax, you in effect subsidize tax increases at the state and local level,” Norquist said an interview. “The way to solve that is to get rid of the deduction. It’s good tax policy. It’s good tax reform.”The deduction is a rare tax break for high earners that conservatives want to abolish and Democrats want to protect, a dynamic that scrambles the traditional partisan divide.“Republicans don’t like the idea of subsidizing state and local governments,” said Roberton Williams, an economist with the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. “This is transferring money from low-tax states to high-tax states. So this doesn’t rank high on the list of deductions and preferences they like. The flipside of that is Democrats like the idea of states having more funds.”Higher IncomesTrump hasn’t taken a public position on the issue, and White House spokeswoman Natalie Strom declined to comment on his thinking. “He’s continuing to hear input from all sides” on a potential tax plan, she said, describing it as a high priority.Williams said the president, a wealthy New Yorker, has “almost certainly” benefited from the tax break in the past; Strom also declined to comment on that.Ditching the deduction would raise federal tax revenue by $1.3 trillion over 10 years, according to the Tax Policy Center, which found that 90 percent of that increase would be paid by taxpayers who earn $100,000 or more.The largest beneficiaries of the tax break are California, New York and New Jersey, all relatively high-tax blue states, which eat up more than a third of the nationwide benefits, according to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.“Blue state, red state, it doesn’t matter to us. It’s still bad policy,” said Andy Roth, a lobbyist for Club for Growth, a conservative pressure group. “The state and local tax deduction is just a subsidy for government to tax and spend more money.” The Heritage Foundation, a right-leaning research and advocacy group, urged Congress in a recent report to “repeal the deduction and use the revenue gained to reduce federal marginal tax rates.”Ryan’s BlueprintHouse Speaker Paul Ryan has proposed to do just that. The blueprint for tax reform that he introduced last summer -- which has drawn most notice because it proposes a controversial border-adjusted tax -- would kill the deduction.Yet the intraparty politics surrounding the issue could be tricky. In the House, 28 Republicans represent New York, California and New Jersey combined, and the GOP can only afford to lose about 20 of its own members to pass a bill without Democratic support.“You’re going to see Republican members in those states fighting to keep those deductions,” said Representative Chris Collins, a New York Republican. The state and local tax break is “big for New Jersey, New York, California,” he said.Democratic opposition is assured.‘Vigorously Fight’“Any proposal to eliminate or scale back the state and local deduction would result in a significant tax increase on middle-class Americans,” said Matt House, a spokesman for Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “Senator Schumer will vigorously fight this proposal.”Trump has refused to release his own tax returns, a departure from four decades of precedent. Keeping them a secret could complicate tax-reform legislation, Schumer told reporters last week. “He just has an obligation to come clean,” Schumer said. “When you clean up the swamp, it’s not keeping things secret.”Shortly before he took office in January, Trump met with New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, and discussed taxes. Cuomo told reporters he conveyed to Trump that ending the state and local tax deduction “would be devastating for the state of New York” and others.The prospect may be moot if Republicans decide not to offset the cost of their tax plan. While Ryan remains committed to a permanent overhaul, which would likely have to be revenue-neutral, several top GOP senators have floated a straight tax cut that would automatically expire after 10 years.Scrapping the state and local tax break would be “as much a punishment of blue states as it is simplifying the tax code,” said Stan Collender, a fiscal policy expert and former congressional Democratic budget aide. “It tends to hurt states with blue governors and high tax rates, and probably didn’t vote for Trump and isn’t likely to vote for a Republican presidential candidate anytime soon.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-13/democrats-want-guarantee-for-health-subsidies-after-trump-threat
Democrats Want Guarantee for Health Subsidies After Trump ThreatCongressional Democrats are warning they will fight to prevent President Donald Trump from withholding payments used to subsidize insurance costs for poor Americans under Obamacare, signalling the issue could become part of the debate to avoid a government shutdown at the end of April.Top House and Senate Democratic leaders are pushing to guarantee the so-called Cost Sharing Reduction subsidies as part of a spending bill that must be approved by April 28, the last day of government funding under current law, according to three Democratic aides.Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, also signaled a tough stance Thursday, saying Democrats “will not negotiate with hostage takers.”Trump told the Wall Street Journal Wednesday that he might withhold the CSR payments to force Democrats to negotiate changes to the existing health law, the Affordable Care Act, which Republicans have been seeking to repeal.The three Democratic aides, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said both Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi agree that CSR payments must be included in the omnibus spending bill being negotiated as permanent, mandatory spending.Those payments to lower-income people have been at the center of an almost three-year legal battle between Republicans and Democrats.Shutdown ThreatThe Democratic aides made clear that the payments could become a potential shutdown issue, since Democratic votes will be needed to pass the bill in the Senate, and perhaps in the House.Negotiations over that bill, which lawmakers will have only five days to pass when Congress reconvenes on April 24, are already increasingly complicated. Some Republicans are prepared to fight for Trump’s request for funding to begin building a border wall, which Democrats have made clear they will oppose. Trump also is calling for a provision that blocks federal funding for “sanctuary cities.”On the Cost Sharing Reduction payments, Democrats may find some Republican allies.Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican who chairs a key health committee, said in late March that his preference is to include the money in the spending bill, as well.On Thursday, two former Senate Majority leaders, Republican Bill Frist of Tennessee and Democrat Tom Daschle of South Dakota, made a call on behalf of the Washington D.C.-based Bipartisan Policy Center, to extend the subsidy payments.“It is clear that the withdrawal of cost-sharing subsidies provided through the Affordable Care Act would destabilize this already fragile market,” they said in a joint statement.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-06/democrats-take-shot-at-trump-by-pouring-money-into-georgia-race
Democrats Take on Trump by Pouring Cash Into Georgia RaceDemocrat Favored in Georgia Special ElectionDonors from across the U.S. have poured more than $8 million into a Georgia Democrat’s long-shot bid for a suburban Atlanta congressional seat, reflecting liberals’ frustration with Republican President Donald Trump’s election.The fundraising bonanza has buoyed Democrat Jon Ossoff, a 30-year-old former congressional aide who hopes to win the seat -- long held by Republicans -- in a special election on April 18. Still, political experts question whether his swelling campaign kitty foreshadows larger success for Democrats in next year’s congressional races.“Special elections take on a sort of out-sized significance because they’re the only thing that’s going on,” said Robert Boatright, a political science professor at Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts.Ossoff’s campaign disclosed raising $8.3 million to the Federal Election Commission from Jan. 3 through March 29, a total it called a quarterly record for a congressional campaign that isn’t self-financed by a candidate. About $7.7 million of the total were online donations, driven in large part by DailyKos, the progressive news and activism site.Trump’s MarginGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.The special election will fill a seat once held by former Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich, and more recently by Tom Price, the physician whom Trump appointed to head the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Democrats see the district as vulnerable because its well-educated and upper-income electorate gave only mild support to Trump. Price won it by 23 percentage points in November; Trump’s margin was fewer than two percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Both major parties are portraying the race as a harbinger for next year’s midterm elections, when Democrats need to flip 25 seats to take over the House. But political experts are divided on its significance.Boatright said that while activist groups are good at “rallying support behind a small number of candidates,” Democrats will need to be competitive in too many races in 2018 to have a similar impact.“The more candidates you have, the more money gets spread out,” he said.Michael Malbin, executive director of the nonpartisan Campaign Finance Institute, disagreed. “What $8.3 million says to a potential candidate is that money is out there and there’s a pool of donors who really care about which party controls the chamber,” he said. That could make it easier for Democrats to recruit attractive candidates, he said.Challengers’ MoneyChallengers who beat incumbent House members in 2016 raised an average of $2.7 million, a more reachable sum, said Malbin, whose organization studies campaign fundraising in federal and state elections. “It’s still going to be hard to beat 25 incumbents, but if there’s any realistic possibility, yes, I see the money being there.”Ossoff’s chance of victory remains a bit of a long shot. Eighteen candidates, including 11 Republicans and five Democrats qualified for the ballot. If no one secures more than half the vote, the top two finishers will go to a runoff on June 20. If the race goes to that second round, a Republican would be favored in the right-leaning district.A poll commissioned by the liberal group MoveOn.org Political Action put Ossoff’s support at 40 percent, still short of the majority he’d need. No other Democrat got more than 1 percent. The top Republican candidate, former Georgia Secretary of State Karen Handel, was at 18 percent in the same survey.Handel’s campaign said it had raised $463,000. Ending Spending, a political nonprofit funded by billionaire Joe Ricketts, disclosed to the FEC Friday that it had just purchased $500,000 in television air time to back her.Television AdsThrough Monday, Ossoff had been by far the biggest television advertiser in the race, spending an estimated $2.5 million, according to data from Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks political advertising. The campaign said it still has $2.1 million in the bank.Liberal groups have gotten involved in the race in other ways. Planned Parenthood Action Fund, the group’s advocacy arm, has spent $152,257 on Ossoff’s behalf for direct mail and canvassing, according to an FEC disclosure.The National Republican Congressional Committee has countered with $1.6 million -- largely devoted to digital advertising that attacks Ossoff. Similarly, the Congressional Leadership Fund, a super-PAC endorsed by House Republican leadership, has spent $2.5 million. The total could include ads that have yet to run.The money pouring into Ossoff’s campaign may reflect a broader trend in the wake of Trump’s surprise election, said Kay Schlozman, a political science professor at Boston College. “All kinds of causes on the blue side of the continuum have raised a lot of money,” she said, noting that the American Civil Liberties Union and Planned Parenthood both have reported fundraising spikes.But Democrats face disadvantages in the 2018 election, she said, including lower turnout rates from the party’s base and 10 incumbent Senators up for re-election in states Trump won. In that context, determining what Ossoff’s fundraising success means for 2018 is “a much more ambiguous question,” she said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-12/trump-still-seeking-to-pass-health-care-bill-before-tax-overhaul
Trump Threatens Health Subsidies to Poor to Force TalksPaul Ryan's Clout in Doubt After Health FiascoPresident Donald Trump might withhold payments under Obamacare that are used to help poor people afford medical services in order to force Democrats to negotiate changes to the health law, he told the Wall Street Journal in an interview.Those payments to lower-income people, called cost-sharing-reduction subsidies, have been at the center of an almost three-year legal battle between Republicans and Democrats. The payments are used to help poorer people in Obamacare afford copays and other cost sharing for medical services. Without them, they might not be able to afford to get care. Trump’s administration has threatened to stop making the payments.“I don’t want people to get hurt,” Trump told the Journal published Wednesday. “What I think should happen -- and will happen -- is the Democrats will start calling me and negotiating.”The top Senate Democrat swiftly criticized Trump for his remarks, saying that the party’s strategy remains unchanged.“President Trump is threatening to hold hostage health care for millions of Americans, many of whom voted for him, to achieve a political goal of repeal that would take health care away from millions more,” Chuck Schumer of New York said in a statement. “This cynical strategy will fail.”The Trump administration and Republicans in Congress are trying to find a way forward with their efforts to repeal and replace large parts of the Affordable Care Act, after a GOP-crafted bill in the House was pulled from a floor vote last month, lacking support. Afterward, Trump threatened to let Obamacare collapse on his watch, as a way to force Democrats to come to him with offers to make changes to the law.‘Health Care First’Despite the failure of the House GOP effort, and no clear signs of Republican consensus on how to revive it, Trump said in a separate interview with Fox Business that his efforts on health care are “doing very well” and that he still wants a bill passed before tackling tax reform.“We have to do health care first to pick up additional money so that we get great tax reform. So we’re going to have a phenomenal tax reform, but I have to do health care first,” Trump said in the Fox Business interview on Tuesday.Trump wouldn’t put a deadline on when a health-care bill would be passed, saying it would happen “at some point.” He added that if it didn’t happen “fast enough” he would eventually move on to tax reform.Companies and investors have been eagerly awaiting an overhaul to the U.S. tax system that the administration has promised will lower corporate taxes and make it easier to bring money back from overseas. But with health reform standing in the way, analysts now think it won’t be until the end of the year, at the earliest, when a tax plan could take shape.“Markets, that have been expecting tax reform movement and action earlier in the year, based in part on administration and congressional statements, may be disappointed on this news and react accordingly,” said Terry Haines, an analyst with Evercore ISI.Obamacare ThreatsTrump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, reaffirmed in a CNBC interview on Wednesday that the White House would produce its own tax plan.“You will have a White House-Donald Trump tax plan that we are going to take down to the Hill and try and sell,” he said. But the White House is still working on Trump’s “goals and principles” for an overhaul, he said.Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.During the Fox interview, Trump also raised the threat that Obamacare’s insurance programs will fail if the government doesn’t keep making some payments to insurers, though he didn’t refer to the cost-sharing reduction subsidies by name. House Republicans sued to block the payments in 2014, but the Obama administration, and now the Trump White House, have defended against the challenge as it goes through the courts.“Even now as I came in here, payments have to be made that weren’t scheduled to be made on Obamacare,” Trump said. “If you don’t make them, it fails.”Trump has repeatedly threatened to let Obamacare fall apart in order to force Democrats to negotiate with him. Halting the payments by ending defense of the lawsuit would cut off billions of dollars in funds to insurers, and would probably lead some to boost premiums, while others would likely quit Obamacare entirely.Unclear StatementsThe Trump administration hasn’t been clear on its plans for the payments. In a report this week, the Department of Health and Human Services told the New York Times that it plans to keep paying them as long as the lawsuit over the payments is pending. It later sent out a statement calling the report “inaccurate.”“The administration is currently deciding its position on this matter,” Alleigh Marre, a spokeswoman for HHS, said in the email. “The report was in reference to the current status of the lawsuit and is not an indication of what will happen in the future. No decisions have been made about how the administration will proceed.”Infrastructure PlanDuring the interview, Trump said he’s considering pairing a plan for improving U.S. infrastructure with a second phase of the Republicans’ health-care initiative, which includes provisions aimed at insurance companies. Pairing the two initiatives might help secure congressional Democrats’ support, Trump said.“If I put that in, the Democrats are actually going to love the infrastructure plan,” Trump said.But Democrats won’t support any effort to link infrastructure with health care if it includes repealing Obamacare, said Drew Hammill, a spokesman for House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. She also wants to see details of the infrastructure plan and can’t support one that relies on tax credits and tolls or other user fees to leverage private investment, Hammill said.DJ Gribbin, a special assistant to Trump for infrastructure policy, said the White House’s strategy initially was to pass measures on health care and taxes first, but now there are discussions about combining infrastructure with another bill.“The timing of that ultimately is going to be determined by does it stand alone, does it move with something else,’’ Gribbin said at a Wall Street Journal Forum on Wednesday in Washington.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-03-30/ryan-wary-of-trump-deal-with-democrats-if-gop-fails-on-obamacare
Trump Taunts Freedom Caucus on ObamacareTrump Signals He's Ready to Work With DemocratsPresident Donald Trump said he is ready to “fight” the conservative House Freedom Caucus, citing several Republicans by name and warning it could drag down the GOP’s entire agenda, a sign of deep disarray after the embarrassing setback on its attempted Obamacare repeal.“The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don’t get on the team, & fast. We must fight them, & Dems, in 2018!” Trump tweeted Thursday morning, raising the stakes on next year’s congressional elections as party leaders try to turn their attention to a promised tax overhaul.Ryan on Capitol Hill on March 28.Photographer: Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesThe president later posted that if Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows and co-founders Jim Jordan and Raul Labrador “would get on board we would have both great healthcare and massive tax cuts & reform.”House Speaker Paul Ryan, reeling from last week’s aborted effort to pass the GOP’s health-care bill, said Thursday that he understood Trump’s frustration, since “90 percent of our conference” backed the health-care bill. “I share his frustration,” he told reporters Thursday.Earlier, Ryan issued his own caution to Republicans that they need to unify or risk tempting the president to cut a deal with Democrats.As Republican lawmakers discuss reviving their health bill, Ryan told CBS that he fears that “if we don’t do this, then he’ll just go work with Democrats to try and change Obamacare. And that’s not, that’s hardly a conservative thing.”The strong words from Trump and Ryan come after several House Republican lawmakers said Wednesday that the party may attempt another vote next week on the health-care bill, even as leaders tried to tamp down expectations."It’s not going to the floor next week," Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the chief House GOP vote-counter, said Thursday morning. "The leader schedules the floor. But I don’t anticipate it going next week."Ryan told reporters Thursday that “this is too big of an issue to not get right, and so I’m not going to put some kind of artificial deadline on saving the American health care system from an oncoming collapse.”Corker RebukeSome Republicans appeared uncomfortable with the harsh new tone coming from their party’s top leaders.“This idea of not working with Democrats on health care is a big mistake,” Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said. “I think President Trump would serve himself well and the country well if after Obamacare begins to collapse, which it is, he challenged the Democrats and Republicans to work together. That would help the country, that would be the best way to reform health care, I think it would change his numbers.”Separately, Republican Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee tweeted, “We have come a long way in our country when the speaker of one party urges a president NOT to work with the other party to solve a problem.”But the recriminations continue with the GOP, as frustrated Republicans lashed out over the collapse of one of their top campaign promises."He is obviously frustrated as many of us are and there is only one place the finger-pointing should go and that is at the Freedom Caucus," said Representative Chris Collins of New York, an early Trump backer.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer declined to comment on whether the president was threatening a primary challenge against Freedom Caucus holdouts. "I’m going to let the tweet speak for itself," he said.Threat to SanfordBut Mark Sanford of South Carolina, a member of the group, told the state’s Post and Courier newspaper that Trump’s budget director Mick Mulvaney, himself a former member of the House, delivered such a threat."’The president asked me to look you square in the eyes and to say that he hoped that you voted ‘no’ on this bill so he could run against you in 2018,’" Sanford said Mulvaney told him.Several Freedom Caucus members declined to comment on Trump’s attack, but others defended the group’s decision to stand up for conservative principles.Representative Dave Brat of Virginia, a caucus member, said the group is talking with other Republicans about reviving the bill in a conversation not being led by GOP leaders."We’re within striking distance," he said. "I’m not sure if the president got the story" that the Freedom Caucus is trying to get rid of Obamacare and insurance regulations to bring down premiums.If Republicans do revive a health-care bill, that would be a shift from last week, when Trump said the party would move on to other issues, including a tax overhaul, after the long-awaited bill was pulled 30 minutes ahead of a scheduled floor vote.Representative Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee said Thursday that she would like the House to bring the bill back. “I hope we do something next week," she said. “We’ve been working on a bill. We’re still working.”Two-Week RecessGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, who helped derail the bill last week, have been talking with some Republican moderate holdouts in an effort to identify changes that could help win their support for the measure. The House is scheduled to begin a two-week recess April 7, and Republicans would like to return home having passed some version of a health-care measure that only days ago was declared dead.Democrats have indicated they may be receptive to working with the White House if Republicans focus on improving Obamacare.“Many Republicans just want repeal,” Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate, told MSNBC Thursday. “If they will take repeal off the table, Democrats will slide the chairs up to the table.” Durbin said Senate Democrats already are talking to Republicans willing to set aside the idea of repeal and that on some level in terms of talks “the effort’s underway.”Durbin said he believes the White House is “more receptive now” to bipartisan negotiations after last week’s defeat in the House.But Ryan said that wouldn’t be a good outcome for the GOP.“I don’t want that to happen,” Ryan said of a Trump partnership with Democrats, saying he favors a “patient-centered” approach while Democrats want “government running health care.”Two Republican lawmakers, describing plans on the condition of anonymity, said Wednesday that House leaders would consider working into the weekend, although it was unclear what changes would be made to the Republicans’ health bill.House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said Thursday that no vote is currently planned on the measure."As of today, I do not have anything scheduled for next week," said McCarthy, but he said he would advise if anything changes for the future.Mark MeadowsPhotographer: Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesMeadows, a North Carolina Republican, has been negotiating with colleagues on a compromise.“There’s a real commitment among members he’s been speaking with to not give up and move expeditiously toward a path forward,” his spokeswoman, Alyssa Farah, said Wednesday. “But he doesn’t want to constrain himself to artificial deadlines like ‘before recess.’”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-26/gop-bid-to-gut-dodd-frank-renews-debate-over-breaking-up-banks
Republican Bid to Gut Dodd-Frank Renews the Debate About Breaking Up the BanksMnuchin Says He's Focused on Regulatory ReformThe roll-out of legislation this week that would rip up much of the Dodd-Frank Act marks a pivotal moment for Republicans’ efforts to overhaul post-crisis financial rules.It’s also an opportunity for Democrats to push an agenda that GOP lawmakers and finance executives are less keen to talk about: Breaking up Wall Street megabanks.QuickTake  Too Big to FailThe Republican bill, drafted by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling, has a lot that banks like. It would repeal the Volcker Rule, which restricts lenders from making speculative bets unless they use clients’ money. And it would reduce the frequency of burdensome exams that determine whether banks can pay shareholder dividends. House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin told reporters on Wednesday that he’ll seek a vote on the measure “as quickly as possible” after it’s approved by Hensarling’s committee.But some Democrats have started strategizing on ways to leverage Hensarling’s bill to force Republicans to take a stand on controversial issues. That includes bringing back some version of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression era-law kept investment banking and consumer lending separate for more than six decades until it was scrapped in 1999. A handful of lawmakers blame the repeal for contributing to the 2008 meltdown, an argument that Wall Street flatly rejects.A Perilous Path Ahead for Dodd-Frank Banking Law: QuickTake Q&A“A total breakup of the banks is my goal, but I’m not averse to making compromises,” said Representative Mike Capuano, a Massachusetts Democrat who is considering proposing a Glass-Steagall amendment to Hensarling’s legislation. “Any progress we can make toward the concept of separation is better than what we have.”Capuano and others who want to see banks shrunk have been emboldened by recent statements from Trump administration officials, including White House economic advisor Gary Cohn. Earlier this month, the former top executive at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said he would support some version of Glass-Steagall being brought back.Read more: A Perilous Path Ahead for Dodd-Frank Banking LawThe prospect of a politically-divided Congress passing any major financial services bill, particularly one that would force banks to dramatically rethink their business models, is a longshot. Still, having to register a vote on dismantling giant lenders presents risks for individual lawmakers, especially those who rely on political contributions from the finance industry.While Republicans included a reinstatement of Glass-Steagall in the platform they approved during their national convention in July, it hasn’t been a key of the party’s agenda on Capitol Hill this year.Just Rhetoric?“Anything that gets Republican members on the record about where they stand is meaningful,” said Joe Valenti, director of consumer finance at the Center of American Progress, a progressive think tank. “It could be useful to see whether this is just rhetoric or whether there could be actual, serious debate on a proposal.”Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Getting drawn into a fight over Glass-Steagall is something firms like JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. would like to avoid, as the issue illustrates the threat of President Donald Trump’s conflicting economic messages. While Trump has pledged to ease financial regulations that he says are crippling growth, he got elected in part due to his populist anti-Wall Street rhetoric on the campaign trail.The House Financial Services Committee is holding a hearing on Hensarling’s bill Wednesday with a panel vote on the legislation planned for next week, giving Democrats a chance to offer amendments.“Dodd-Frank has been a bigger burden to enterprise than all other Obama-era regulations combined,” Hensarling said at the hearing. “There is a better way.”Brian Gardner, a financial policy analyst at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, says a bigger threat to banks will emerge on Glass-Steagall if the Senate takes up a financial rules overhaul.Cohn Endorsement“It’s mostly a diversion at this time,” Gardner said in an interview. “But it could be a much bigger risk in the Senate where Democrats have an outsized influence and could decide to hold other financial measures hostage until they get a vote on Glass-Steagall.”It was during a private meeting with senators that Cohn offered his Glass-Steagall endorsement, people who heard his comments have said.When asked to elaborate, Cohn said he’s backed a clear separation between investment banking and consumer lending for years, adding that there are cultural differences between the two business lines, said the people who asked not to be named because the meeting was private.His comments flustered bankers and their lobbyists, many of whom placed frantic calls to the White House and congressional offices seeking more details.Banker ConfusionPart of the frustration banks have is confusion over what policy makers mean when they promote a separation of investment and commercial banking.The phrase “21st century Glass-Steagall” was first coined by Senator Elizabeth Warren, a staunch liberal. But it has since been adopted by Trump and members of his administration. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told the Financial Times last week that one approach for implementing a modern version of Glass-Steagall could be walling off units of banks, instead of breaking them up.“Anytime I hear this term 21st Century Glass-Steagall, I ask what it is, and I have yet to have anybody really tell me,” Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Mike Corbat said during an April 13 earnings call with investors and analysts. “I have yet to have anybody really explain to me what value there is."The Wednesday hearing on Hensarling’s bill, dubbed the Financial Choice Act, may not provide Corbat or other bank CEOs much clarity. And even if an amendment was added that brings back Glass-Steagall, the legislation still isn’t likely to win support from many Democrats.“I just can’t vote for this bill, it’s just so bad,” said Representative Brad Sherman, a California Democrat. “This isn’t the Financial Choice, it’s the wrong choice.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-28/merkel-talks-tough-on-migrants-in-foretaste-of-election-campaign
Merkel Talks Tough on Migrants in Election Campaign Warm-UpGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel is talking tough on migrants and crime as she hits the campaign trail for two state elections next month, giving a foretaste of her bid for a fourth term in September.Merkel’s hardened rhetoric was on display in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state, where her Christian Democratic Union is seeking to end seven years of Social Democratic rule on May 14. On Friday, she’s campaigning east of Hamburg in Schleswig-Holstein, where two polls this week suggest her party has a slim lead over the SPD ahead of a regional vote on May 7.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.At a CDU rally in the rural Westphalian town of Beverungen, Merkel reaffirmed her push to return migrants who don’t qualify for asylum and attacked the state’s Social Democrat-led government as soft on crime. She said local officials “tried to sweep under the carpet” lapses in policing around mass sexual assaults on women in Cologne on New Year’s Eve in 2015, an incident that stoked an anti-immigration backlash.“The opportunity for improvement was there,” Merkel told the crowd on Thursday. “Things didn’t get better, so it’s time for a change.”As polls suggest that both Germany’s anti-immigration AfD party and her Social Democratic challenger Martin Schulz are in retreat for now, Merkel is using the opening to rally her CDU behind traditional themes of public safety. At a security conference this week, she said Europe’s haphazard policing of its outer borders compares unfavorably to U.S. immigration checks and must be strengthened.Polls ReboundSupport for Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led bloc rose 2 percentage points to 37 percent, while the SPD declined 3 points to 29 percent compared with three weeks ago, according to an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television published Friday. The AfD, or Alternative for Germany, declined 1 point to 8 percent. The poll of 1,328 people has a margin of error of as much as 3 percentage points.Five months away from the national vote, the rally showcased Merkel’s less-welcoming tone on asylum seekers, almost two years after her open-borders response to Europe’s refugee crisis split public opinion and was pilloried by critics including now-President Donald Trump.Merkel, 62, is seeking to sustain momentum after riding out an SPD surge in national polls triggered by the party’s nomination of Schulz, a former European Parliament president. In North Rhine-Westphalia, Schulz’s home state, a poll this week showed the two biggest parties in a dead heat, though most other surveys have put the SPD ahead.Merkel’s government credits a refugee accord between the European Union and Turkey for helping reduce Germany’s influx of asylum seekers to about 15,000 a month this year compared with an average of about 23,000 last year, with the largest number coming from Syria. Germany’s lower house on Thursday passed a government bill that bans civil servants from wearing face veils at work, one of a series of measures meant to make Muslims fit into German society.
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-19/government-shutdown-is-logical-but-not-likely
Government Shutdown Is Logical But Not LikelyAll the elements of a debacle will be in place next week when congressional authorization expires for financing the U.S. government.Lawmakers, on recess now, will have only four days to iron out a deal. Right-wing Republicans see a chance to enact abortion curbs and anti-immigrant measures that opponents won't countenance. Democrats are in no mood to offer concessions. And the administration of President Donald Trump has trouble getting its act together.QuickTake  U.S. Budget BattlesSound like a government shutdown in the making? It's very unlikely.Trump Trying to Avoid Govt. Shutdown, Strike Tax DealFunding for the government will expire on April 28 without congressional action. The odds are that there will be a one- or two-week extension, with the battle joined and probably resolved by mid-May.Trump's budget director, Mick Mulvaney, has insisted that a spending bill for the upcoming year must include money for the Trump's proposed wall along the Mexican border, and must cut off funds to cities that don't cooperate with Washington in cracking down on undocumented workers. These measures, or big cuts in current spending, won't fly with Democrats.That means they're likely to be dropped, as it is not in the political interest of Trump or Republican congressional leaders to provoke a crisis. That goes double after the collapse of their health-care plan last month."With a Republican House, Republican Senate and Republican administration, we don't want to stumble into a shutdown," said Representative Tom Cole, a senior Oklahoma Republican who is close to the House leadership.That doesn't mean that deliberations will go smoothly next week. Congressional appropriators have been working in a relatively bipartisan way to fashion a spending plan that can win majority support, but little of their handiwork has been taken to the rank-and-file of either party.The far-right House Republican freedom caucus of about three-dozen members, emboldened by their success in killing the Obamacare replacement bill advocated by Trump and the party leadership, won't settle easily. Lacking their support, House Speaker Paul Ryan may be forced to cut a deal with Democrats, something House leaders have been loath to do.In the Senate, Democrats have to be included in any funding agreement. That's because filibuster rules mean that most spending legislation can't pass without 60 votes. There are 52 Republican senators.Democrats may try to bargain for preserving the insurance subsidies for low-income people that are provided by Obamacare. Trump has threatened to use this as leverage to force Democrats to agree to other Republican health-care proposals. The mere threat of cutting off these funds, some industry experts say, could wreak havoc on health-insurance markets.Since Trump probably is bluffing, some accord is likely on this matter.There already are a few bipartisan deals in the works: a little more money for the National Institutes of Health, and more pension and health-care funding for retired miners espoused by Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and West Virginia's Joe Manchin, an embattled Democrat up for re-election next year. There even could be a sop to Trump, with money directed at the Department of Homeland Security but not earmarked for a border wall.The April 28 cutoff date was set in December by Republicans once they knew they would control the government in 2017. At the time, they thought the Trump administration would need just 100 days to reorder government priorities. It didn't work out that way. So now they just want to get past it.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-19/may-s-election-set-to-dash-anti-brexit-camp-s-hopes-of-reversal
Hard Dose of Reality Hits Anti-Brexit CampaignersFor those who believe Brexit is a terrible mistake that could be undone, Prime Minister Theresa May’s decision to call a snap election offered a moment of hope followed by a hard dose of reality.After her announcement, Stephen Dorrell, chairman of the European Movement, emailed supporters to say “it is not too late to change our minds.” That might involve voting May out of power and holding a second referendum, a scenario that even the most optimistic europhiles see as politically implausible.“If you held a rerun of the referendum tomorrow, you’d get the same result,” said James McGrory, director of Open Britain, the campaign for keeping the U.K. close to the European Union.Why the U.K. is Heading to the Polls… Again (Video)Source: BloombergThe realization that Brexit is irreversible is dawning on the phalanx of the population distraught to part ways with a long-time trade companion of more than four decades. Less than a year after the shock decision, the die-hards among the 16 million Britons, or 48 percent of voters, have few options. At best, they can try to soften a hard Brexit landing.McGrory sees the election as an opportunity instead to shift the balance of parliament, so as to increase the pressure on May to pull back. She wants to leave the single market and put control of borders and budget ahead of trade. Perhaps, the argument goes, there is scope to contain some of that.“It’s about limiting the number of members of parliament who favor a hard form of Brexit and maximizing the chances of those who don’t to hold their seats,” he said.Last Chance?The one party that wants to go down this path is the Liberal Democrats. The most pro-European of Britain’s national parties suffered a near wipe-out in the 2015 election and has spent the last year arguing that the results of May’s Brexit negotiations should be put to another plebiscite.“The real issue is can the Liberal Democrats prevent what Theresa May thinks and hopes is a coronation for her,” party leader Tim Farron told Bloomberg Television. “If it is a coronation then that means it’s a blank check for Theresa May to deliver the hardest Brexit.”The first big poll carried out since May called an election give her reason to be confident. Tories are seen winning 48 percent of the votes, with Labour trailing with 24 percent and Liberal Democrats at 12 percent, according to a YouGov survey of voting intentions reported by The Times. No margin of error was given.Eyeing DistrictsThe Liberal Democrats’ dream is to repeat the achievement of the Scottish National Party in 2015. After losing an independence referendum the previous year, it picked up all of the votes of the losing side, and used them to win 56 out of 59 seats in the election. On this logic, the people who voted to stay in the EU ought to be enough to win almost any parliamentary seat.The electoral districts they have their eyes on are those where the current representative backs leaving the EU, but voters wanted to stay. One Lib Dem lawmaker mentioned Esher, southeast London, the seat of leading “Leave” campaigner Dominic Raab.That sounds ambitious: Raab took 63 percent of the vote in 2015, though since then he’s faced complaints from his constituents. He described himself on Wednesday as “confident, but not for a second complacent.”Read More: A QuickTake Q&A: U.K.’s Snap Election and What It Means for BrexitThe other aim is to recoup the seats they lost in 2015. In Twickenham, southwest London, the former Business Secretary Vince Cable was ousted by a margin of 2,000 votes. He announced on Wednesday he’d be running to take the seat back and while the current lawmaker opposed Brexit, that may not be enough to save her.“Brexit gives the Lib Dems an opportunity to reassert their relevance,” said Andrew Russell, author of “Neither Left Nor Right?” a history of the party. “There’s an awful lot of people voted to remain who now see they’re being ignored. The Lib Dems are firmly back in the center ground. That’s all to the good. The bad news is that they’re way behind in some of those seats.”Russell thought the party was looking at ending up with around 20 seats, up from their current nine, rather than the more than 50 they had until 2015.Stronger Together?Brexit offers no such hope to Labour, though. Its position has been muddled, with a leader who has historically opposed EU membership yet campaigned for it in 2016. The party also has to find a pitch that reaches those of its voters who backed Brexit, as well as those who oppose it.Tony Blair, the former Labour prime minister who has placed himself at the head of those trying to keep Britain in the EU, urged voters to back any candidate that opposes Brexit.“We desperately need representatives who will at least keep an open mind,” he wrote this week. “This requires the electorate in every constituency to know where the candidates stand; and the mobilisation of the thousands in each constituency to make it clear that for them this issue counts when it comes to their vote.”Whether a groundswell of support behind a common cause gains momentum, remains to be seen. For now, at least, May is on track to have Brexit her way.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-21/farmers-have-a-beef-with-trump-and-big-meat
Farmers’ Beef With Trump Over ‘Big Meat’The move, though not out of the ordinary for an incoming administration, is seen by farmer advocacy groups as a sign Trump is bending to the will of the industry, which strongly opposes the rule. The decision comes as Sonny Perdue III, the president’s pick for Secretary of Agriculture, is likely to be confirmed next week. Perdue is the former governor of Georgia, the country’s top chicken producing state, and has received hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from agribusiness, according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics. And finally, Trump has proposed a 21 percent budget cut to the USDA, provoking an outcry from agricultural groups that worry rural communities will be hurt most.Those communities were a driving force in putting Trump in the White House. After the latest pro-industry decision, some say they are having buyer’s remorse.The rules at issue have been a long time in the making. In 2008, the then-Democratic-controlled Congress pushed forward a mandate to make the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921, an antitrust law aimed at the meatpacking industry, more enforceable. But beginning in 2011, Republicans refused to fund the rules’ completion or implementation. Finally (after a scathing send-up of the poultry industry by comedian John Oliver in 2015), the rules received their long-awaited funding, and the USDA went through the rulemaking process to accept public comments and sent the proposals out the door.A final rubber stamp from the new administration would activate the first rule, and the rest, farmers hoped, would follow. But as the inauguration came and went, how the Trump administration would proceed remained an open question.During the campaign, farmers who felt ill-served by both parties were impressed with Trump’s outsider status. “Even though he’s a Republican, he’s not part of the establishment,” says Genell Pridgen, a former contract poultry grower in North Carolina. “A lot of folks down here have come to not trust the Democrats or Republicans. They think members of Congress can be bought. They’ll throw a bone to the common folk every so often, but they’re beholden to lobbyists.” All of Trump’s talk about draining the swamp and being a self-made man indebted to no one resonated deeply with a population that has long felt left behind.“He promised he was going to help the common man,” Pridgen says, “whether it was a farmer or miner.”But Trump never addressed contract farming or the Stockyards Act directly. Even as he signed several coal-friendly executive orders, farmers were wondering whether he would take on the meat industry.Trying to Change the Game“When we looked at Trump, it looked like he was willing to take on any part of the establishment,” says Alton Terry, another former contract poultry farmer.Terry sued Tyson Foods Inc. in 2008 for violating the Stockyards Act. He alleged the company retaliated against him for his advocacy work by not weighing his birds properly and ending his contract. Outside court, the company denied his version of events. In court, they argued he didn’t prove the company’s alleged behavior affected the industry as a whole, a requirement to trigger the law’s antitrust provisions. A federal judge and the U.S. Court of Appeals in Cincinnati agreed. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear Terry’s appeal, and Terry went bankrupt.The antitrust rule, one of three that President Barack Obama pushed before leaving office, addressed cases like Terry’s. It specifies that farmers don’t have to show industrywide harm, just harm to the farmer. It was a big step toward changing contract farming, where companies essentially have all the power—including the right to demand mandatory and expensive farm renovations that leave farmers with massive debt.The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.A second rule, currently only “proposed,” would change the way farmers are paid. Currently, poultry contracts calculate payment through a tournament system, whereby farmers compete against each other to “win” by raising the most pounds of chicken on the fewest pounds of feed. But while the companies say the competitive model leads to innovation and good farming, critics say it’s a rigged game: The most important factors are the chicks and the feed, both of which are provided by the companies and, therefore, are outside the farmers’ control. If a farmer loses a round, he might lose money on the flock.The third rule, also proposed, would have further defined what kinds of actions would be considered “unfair, unjustly discriminatory or deceptive” under the same 1921 law.That antitrust rule, which would have affected Terry, was to become law April 22. But under last week’s USDA decision, it’s now delayed until Oct. 19, and a new period for the public and industry to submit comments is currently under way.  (The two proposed rules are even further away from enactment.)Meat Lobby CelebratesDozens of farmer advocacy groups, such as Farm Aid, the Rural Advancement Foundation International USA, and R-CALF USA, support the rule and expressed disappointment at the delay. “We are wondering how long livestock producers and poultry growers have to wait for justice,” said Alicia Harvie, Farm Aid’s advocacy and issues director. “It’s becoming farcical.”Industry groups, meanwhile, are cheering: “We thank the department,” National Chicken Council President Mike Brown said in the organization’s statement, calling the rule “an arbitrary and capricious abuse of federal regulatory authority.” Tom Super, a spokesman for the council, called claims of intimidation and fear “biased and unfounded.”Barry Carpenter, president and chief executive officer of the North American Meat Institute, is hoping the delay means the rule will never take effect. “We are confident that once the new Secretary of Agriculture takes office, he will recognize what a disaster this rule is for producers, meat packers and processors, retailers and consumers,” he said in a statement.Beyond chicken farmers, the nonpartisan American Farm Bureau Federation—which represents hundreds of thousands of farmers—said it supports current contract and marketing arrangements in the pork and beef sectors. “There is still vast room for improvement, however, in efforts to ensure a level playing field for poultry farmers,” the group said.In an interview with Bloomberg last month, Tyson CEO Tom Hayes said, “We don’t feel like we need the help with our growers to have a good relationship.” If that’s the case, says Sally Lee, program director at RAFI-USA for contract agriculture reform, Tyson shouldn’t have anything to worry about under the new rules.In the meantime, the relationship Hayes described is at odds with what Farm Aid sees for chicken farmers. “We can’t overstate the level of fear and intimidation felt by poultry growers that contact us or our partner organizations,” says Harvie. “If they choose to speak up, they risk everything—their contract, their land, their homes.”Not Over Yet“I don’t know that this is a nail in the coffin,” says Cary Coglianese, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania and director of the Penn Program on Regulation. Since the rule never went into effect, he says, it’s easier for the USDA just to postpone it indefinitely.“For the rulemaking process,” Coglianese says, “elections matter.”For now, farmers are trying to remain optimistic. “We hold out hope,” Pridgen says. “Just today we were talking about how to get a letter to [President Trump] that would actually get to him on his desk. My understanding is he’ll actually read a letter and he pays a lot of attention to media. Our hope is that we get the media coverage so that when he’s paying attention at 11 o'clock at night, or whenever it is, he’ll see the farmers are scared.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-28/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-was-little-changed-in-april
Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Was Little Changed in AprilHousehold sentiment was little changed in April from the previous month, holding at an elevated level on optimism about personal finances, University of Michigan survey data showed.Key PointsFinal April index of sentiment stood at 97 (forecast was 98), after 96.9 in March, and down from a preliminary reading of 98Current conditions gauge, which measures Americans’ perceptions of their personal finances, eased to 112.7 from 113.2 the prior month. The preliminary April reading was 115.2Expectations measure crept up to a three-month high of 87 from a March reading of 86.5; April preliminary index was 86.9Big PictureThe most important market news of the day.Get our markets daily newsletter.An improved financial situation was reported by 50 percent of all respondents in both the March and April surveys, the most in at least 15 years. Americans continue to feel optimistic about a solid job market, with expectations of falling unemployment the most favorable since 1984, and the prospects of growth-boosting legislation. The university’s expectations measure remained divided along party lines, as 66 percent of Republicans expected the economy to improve, compared with only 18 percent among Democrats.Economist Takeaways“Consumers are more optimistic about the economy in general, especially independents and Republicans,” Richard Curtin, director of the University of Michigan consumer survey, said on a Bloomberg conference call after the report. “I would expect spending to come back” after a first-quarter slowdown, he said.Other DetailsHigher home values were cited by 62 percent of homeowners, the largest share since 2006Consumers saw inflation rate in the next year at 2.5 percent, unchanged from the prior monthInflation rate over next five to 10 years seen at 2.4 percent, the same as in March
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-25/white-house-says-it-s-unable-to-give-flynn-documents-to-house
Flynn’s Secret Foreign Ties May Have Broken the Law, Chaffetz SaysFormer National Security Adviser Michael Flynn may have violated U.S. law by failing to disclose his business dealings with Russia and Turkey, the leader of the House Oversight Committee said."As a former military officer, you simply cannot take money from Russia, Turkey or anybody else," Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, told reporters Tuesday after reviewing documents from the Defense Intelligence Agency concerning the retired Army lieutenant general. “I see no data to support the notion that General Flynn complied with the law.”Chaffetz, who announced last week that he won’t run for re-election, said Flynn’s alleged income from foreign sources was “inappropriate.” He said that, though a final determination hasn’t been made, there would be “repercussions” for any violation of the law. Representative Elijah Cummings, the committee’s top Democrat, called the documents from the Defense Intelligence Agency, which Flynn once headed, "extremely troubling."Cummings also released an April 19 letter from the White House, saying the administration was refusing to fulfill a bipartisan request to provide documents on Flynn’s payments and security clearances. In the letter, Marc Short, director of legislative affairs, said some requests should be directed to the Defense Department and that the White House was “unable” to hand over other documents.‘Unwieldy Request’White House press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters Tuesday that the lawmakers had asked for every phone contact Flynn had while at the White House. Spicer called it “a very unwieldy request” that couldn’t be fulfilled. Asked whether the White House believed that Flynn broke the law, Spicer said “that would be a question for him and law enforcement agencies.”Defense Department regulations ban retired military officers from receiving certain foreign payments without permission. Chaffetz and Cummings have been probing a $45,000 speech that Flynn gave to the Russia-backed media network RT in December 2015."As has previously been reported, General Flynn briefed the Defense Intelligence Agency, a component agency of the Department of Defense, extensively regarding the RT speaking event trip both before and after the trip, and he answered any questions that were posed by DIA concerning the trip during those briefings,” Robert Kelner, Flynn’s lawyer, said in an emailed statement.The lawmakers also are reviewing Flynn’s lobbying work on behalf of an organization with alleged ties to the Turkish government.Flynn served as a campaign adviser to Trump and then was named national security adviser of the new administration. He resigned after news reports revealed he had misled Vice President Mike Pence about the contents of conversations with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during Trump’s transition.Sitting by PutinIn remarks Tuesday, Cummings said he had obtained Flynn’s January 2016 application for renewal of a security clearance, which didn’t mention the RT speech, even though the form asks about foreign business and consulting. Cummings of Maryland called for the documents to be declassified “to the fullest extent possible.”In March, Democrats released documents showing Flynn’s fee for the RT speech, which included a gala where he sat at President Vladimir Putin’s table. The documents also showed two other appearances for companies with ties to Russia.Flynn retroactively registered with the Justice Department as a foreign agent for work that his firm, Flynn Intel Group, did for a Dutch consulting company, Inovo BV, which has alleged ties to President Recep Erdogan of Turkey. Flynn’s filing showed that his company received $530,000 from Inovo between Sept. 9 and Nov. 14.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.In March, Flynn requested immunity to testify before congressional committees in their probes of Russian attempts to influence last year’s U.S. presidential election. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr told reporters Tuesday he would be against granting immunity. While some lawmakers had called the request premature at the time, Trump wrote in a Twitter post: “Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion!”Read why immunity for Flynn is complicated -- a QuickTake Q&AU.S. intelligence agencies have found that Russia hacked into Democratic emails and leaked them last year in an effort to hurt Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and ultimately to help elect Trump. FBI Director James Comey told a congressional committee in March that the investigation includes “the nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and Russia’s efforts.” Russia rejects the accusations.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-16/tax-day-demonstrators-demand-trump-release-taxes
Trump: 'Who Paid For' Rallies Seeking Release of Tax ReturnsTrump: 'Who Paid For' Rallies Seeking Release of Tax Returns  THE ASSOCIATED PRESS (TAMMY WEBBER)Trump: I’m Not Releasing Tax Returns, They’re Under AuditChicago (AP) -- President Donald Trump says "someone should look into who paid" for the rallies around the country Saturday that urged him to release his tax returns.Trump tweeted Sunday: "I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?"Trump was the first major-party nominee in more than 40 years not to release his returns and he reneged on a campaign commitment to release them. He said they were being audited."Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over," he tweeted.Thousands of sign-waving, chanting protesters marched Saturday through streets across America, demanding that the president release his tax returns so the public can examine his business ties and determine whether he has links to foreign powers.The demonstrations came on the date taxpayers traditionally have to file their returns by and just days before this year's filing deadline Tuesday. The tax day protests in more than a dozen cities were largely peaceful, though occasionally demonstrators and some pro-Trump groups taunted each other in face-to-face exchanges.In Berkeley, California, police arrested at least 20 people at unrelated gatherings of about 200 pro- and anti-Trump people in a park after fist fighting erupted. Officers confiscated knives and makeshift weapons.Trump has said that voters don't care about his tax returns.But many demonstrators said they hoped Saturday's marches would convince Trump otherwise."We do care. We want to see his taxes," said Ann Demerlis, who was among hundreds who marched in Philadelphia from City Hall to an area in front of historic Independence Hall, carrying signs and chanting "We want your taxes now!"Seventy-one-year-old Ilene Singh said he's wrong. She rode a bus from New Jersey to New York City with her friend Geraldine Markowitz, 83, to take part in the protests. "We're here to say we care," said Singh.Pushing her walker, Karin Arlin, 85, a Holocaust survivor who came to the U.S. from Germany when she was 9, said she's also worried about the direction of the country."You don't know which way the country goes," said Arlin next to her 89-year-old husband who fled Czechoslovakia during World War II. "I hope Republicans see it."Protesters in Raleigh, North Carolina, said they suspect that Trump's returns might show he has paid little or nothing to the government he now heads, or that he was indebted to Russian, Chinese or other foreign interests."His reputation ... as a businessman and, more importantly, as a true American, a person who is concerned with American values, would be totally destroyed if all his financial information was made public," said Mike Mannshardt, a retired teacher.One of Trump's sharpest critics in the House spoke to protesters at the U.S. Capitol just before they set off on a march to the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters, of California, said there's nothing to prevent Trump from releasing his income taxes."If he thinks he can get away with playing king, he's got another thought coming," Waters said.Trump's break with precedent has raised questions about possible conflicts of interest.Democrats are pushing for a vote on a bill from Rep. Anna Eshoo, a Democrat from California, which would require the president and all major-party nominees to publicly disclose their previous three years of tax returns with the Office of Government Ethics or the Federal Election Commission.Republicans also have rebuffed Democrats' efforts to get the House Ways and Means Committee to act. It has legal authority to obtain confidential tax records, and could vote to make them public.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-24/obama-sees-post-presidential-goal-of-fostering-new-leadership
Obama Edges Back Into Public Eye But Steers Clear of Trump TalkBarack Obama, making his first formal public appearance since leaving the White House, made no mention Monday of the man who replaced him, as he argued partisanship and special interests have poisoned the political process and hindered the search for solutions.Speaking inside a University of Chicago auditorium to about 400 people, the former Democratic president was relaxed and focused on how he plans to foster a new generation of leaders rather than past political battles or the current occupant of the White House. Obama and the six young adults who joined him on the stage never once uttered the name of President Donald Trump.“There’s a reason why I’m always optimistic, even when things look like they’re sometimes not going the way I want," Obama said near the end of his more than hour-long appearance. "That is because of young people like this.”Obama said that the focus of his life outside of office will be the kind of work he did before entering politics, fostering leadership and grassroots engagement. “The single most important thing I can do is to help in any way I can to prepare the next generation of leadership to take up the baton,” he said.The appearance in Obama’s adopted hometown, at a university where he once taught constitutional law, took place as his successor approaches the 100-day mark of his presidency on Saturday. Obama campaigned for Democrat Hillary Clinton during last year’s election, saying Trump was unfit to hold the nation’s highest office.The former president said technology is partly to blame for a more divided nation. “We’ve become a more individualistic society and that, I think, has some spillover effects when it comes to both political participation, but also in terms of empathy because you’re interacting with fewer people on a regular basis,” he said.“It used to be everybody kind of had the same information,” he added. “The internet, in some ways, has accelerated the sense of people having entirely separate conversations.”Citing the debate over immigration laws, Obama said Democrats must also show more understanding for those who favor stricter border control and “not to assume that everybody who has trouble with the current immigration system is automatically racist.”Lessons LearnedPointing to the one campaign he lost -- his attempt to win a congressional seat that represents Chicago’s South Side -- Obama said that was the one time he ran for office when he was doing so because it just seemed like the "next thing" to do. “Worry less about what you want to be, and worry more about what you want to do,” he said.Obama’s remarks were closely watched for any hint of criticism of Trump, even if heavily veiled. His decision to maintain a low political profile is playing out as Democrats, searching for a unifying message as well as a messenger to deliver it, face a power deficit in Washington and nationally following election losses for the White House, Congress and statehouses.Trump’s CriticismTrump has done plenty to provoke his predecessor, including accusing Obama -- without evidence -- of wiretapping him at Trump Tower in New York during the campaign. In doing so the president called Obama a “bad (or sick) guy,” and Trump has repeatedly blamed the former Oval Office occupant for what he characterizes as the “mess” he inherited at home and abroad.The Chicago event was the first in a series of public appearances that Obama, 55, will make in the coming months. On May 7, he’s scheduled to accept the Profile in Courage Award in Boston from the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation.Two days later, he’ll speak about food, climate change and agriculture at the Global Food Innovation Summit in Milano, Italy. He’ll be joined by Sam Kass, a family friend who was his White House chef.On May 25, Obama is set to appear at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel for a discussion about shaping democracy. The former president, who is writing a memoir that’s expected to earn him tens of millions of dollars, also will deliver paid speeches both in the U.S. and while in Europe.Return to StageObama’s return to the public stage comes after a months-long, globe-trotting vacation tour that took him to California, the Virgin Islands and French Polynesia. The getaway included a cruise on a yacht owned by media mogul David Geffen with fellow passengers Bruce Springsteen, Tom Hanks and Oprah Winfrey.While in Chicago, Obama met privately Sunday with a small group of young men to talk about gun and gang violence. The participants were part of a community outreach program created by Arne Duncan, his longtime friend and former education secretary.Obama hosted a Sunday evening dinner for his presidential library, the Chicago Sun-Times reported. The center, to be built on the city’s South Side, is expected to cost $500 million or more to build and endow for the future.The Obamas still own a home in Chicago, but it’s unclear how much time they’ll spend in the city. They’re renting a mansion in Washington until their second daughter completes high school in 2018.
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-03-31/the-georgia-6th-district-race-could-predict-the-next-election
The One House Race That Could Predict the Next ElectionTom Price made headlines when he became the secretary of health and human services this year, but now all eyes are on the House seat he left empty.The special election in Georgia's 6th congressional district on April 18 is a rare case in which one race has repercussions for every national constituency -- whether you're a Trump supporter or a Sanders loyalist.This election could help pundits to make sense of the disjointed voting patterns in the 2016 election. In many districts, voters were more enthusiastic for downballot Republican candidates than for Donald Trump. He carried the Georgia 6th by just 1.5 points, far shy of the 23-point margin for Mitt Romney in 2012. And yet last November, Tom Price carried the district by 23 points.Democrats see that divide and think Trump will now drag down all Republican candidates. Republicans hope that Trump is an electoral aberration who will have little impact on other elected candidates from his party.Of course this is just one election, to fill just one House seat. But its outcome for the Republican Party -- weak support like Trump garnered, or a rout like Price won -- could set a precedent for other districts in the 2018 midterm elections.If the Republicans lose the district, that may not be a win for all Democrats. The leading Democratic contender is Jon Ossoff, a moderate who is counting on liberal votes and courting conservative support as well.An Ossoff win would disrupt the ascendant left wing of the Democratic Party. That vocal faction -- led by Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren -- advocates rallying support from the party's labor roots. The Ossoff approach is the opposite, much more Clinton-esque. That approach could turn purple districts blue.Georgia's 6th congressional district is neither rural nor poorly educated. In fact, it's the  most well-educated district in the country held by Republicans. A whopping  59.5 percent of residents over the age of 25  have a bachelor's degree. This is higher than in Nancy Pelosi's San Francisco district (56.6 percent) or in any congressional district in well-educated Massachusetts.An Ossoff win would validate the strategy laid out by  Nate Cohn of the New York Times and  myself  to focus on well-educated Sun Belt suburban districts that historically have leaned Republican. Those districts don't want to hear Sanders's socialist appeals. Ossoff's  campaign ads  have included messages about cutting wasteful spending and fixing Obamacare, and he has skipped the more emotional and divisive progressive talking points.The most likely outcome for now is that Ossoff places in the top two in the April 18 special election, and then loses to a Republican challenger in a June 20 runoff election. But should Ossoff beat the odds, then both parties will know that their futures lie not in the Rust Belt, but in affluent suburbs.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-11/trump-transition-team-faces-spending-review-at-warren-s-urging
Trump Transition Team Faces Spending Review at Warren's UrgingThe main U.S. government-accountability agency will examine the public and private spending that went into President Donald Trump’s transition to the presidency, as well as the ethics guidance his team received.The review was outlined in a April 5 letter to Representative Elijah Cummings and Senator Elizabeth Warren, both Democrats, who had urged the Government Accountability Office to examine potential conflicts of interest between Trump’s transition team and his business interests, as well as the team’s communications with foreign governments. Warren’s office released GAO’s letter Tuesday.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Trump has retained ownership in his businesses, placing them in a trust managed by his adult sons. Ethicists have called that arrangement insufficient to separate the president from his personal financial interests.Democrats, who are in the minority in Congress, don’t have much leverage in seeking government reviews of Trump and his businesses. Yet the GAO, which reports to Congress, previously agreed to a request from Warren, Cummings and other Democrats to review travel costs and security procedures for Trump at his Florida estate.Agency’s PlansFor the transition-team review, the agency said it planned to look into “what ethics-related provisions apply to those involved in a transition,” as well as how the transition used public and private funds and “information and services related to conflicts of interest and financial disclosure” from the U.S. Office of Government Ethics. The review will also examine the transition team’s practices for “communication with heads of foreign governments,” according to the GAO’s letter.The agency said it also plans to compare the 2017 transition to those in 2009 and 2001.The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.Warren and Cummings -- in a November 2016 letter that prompted the GAO’s response -- requested that the agency “address several concerns including conflicts of interest related to business holdings of Mr. Trump and his family; potential violations of protocol and security precautions related to Mr. Trump’s communications with foreign leaders; and transparency related to the use of taxpayer funds in the transition.”Warren and Cummings cited media reports that Trump’s daughter, Ivanka Trump, attended a meeting with Japanese leader Shinzo Abe and that Trump spoke to at least one foreign leader on his personal cell phone during the transition. “There is no indication of whether this call or Mr. Trump’s other phone calls with foreign leaders were on secure phone lines,” the letter says.Their letter also questioned whether taxpayers paid for Trump to travel on his personal plane during the transition. “There is no transparency with regard to transition expenditures, raising additional questions about how taxpayer funds may be flowing into Mr. Trump’s pockets,” it says.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-27/the-new-republican-strategy-to-replace-obamacare-quicktake-q-a
The New Republican Strategy to Replace Obamacare: QuickTake Q&AAfter an embarrassing failure in March, President Donald Trump is pushing fellow Republicans in the U.S. Congress to try again to replace his predecessor’s health-care reform, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as Obamacare. The replacement bill, called the American Health Care Act, was pulled last month after Republican leaders failed to gain enough support because conservative and moderate factions couldn’t agree. Now an amendment would give states flexibility to loosen ACA regulations. The change has garnered backing from conservatives and some moderates, though it’s unclear if that’s enough to win all the votes needed for passage.1. What’s changed?Republican representatives Mark Meadows, leader of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, and Tom MacArthur, a leader in the moderate Tuesday Group, negotiated an amendment that has at least brought the conservatives on board. It lets individual states decide for themselves whether to keep certain consumer protections in Obamacare, or drop them to save money.2. What pieces of Obamacare could states drop?Under the revised Republican plan, states could let insurers charge older customers more than the original bill allowed -- at least five times more than younger ones, beginning in 2018. (Under Obamacare, insurers can charge older customers no more than three times as much.) Starting in 2020, states would also be able to draw up their own list of essential health benefits that insurers must cover, perhaps trimming the 10 categories mandated by Obamacare, which include preventive care, mental health treatment and prescription drugs. Also, states could allow insurers to charge higher premiums for people with pre-existing conditions who have had a gap in coverage of at least 63 days in the prior year. To do so, states would have to establish some method (a special “high-risk” insurance pool, or subsidies) to help sick people. Obamacare prohibits insurers from charging more to cover people with pre-existing conditions.3. Didn’t Trump vow to keep covering pre-existing conditions?He promised, in his March 1 address to Congress, to “ensure that Americans with pre-existing conditions have access to coverage.” MacArthur argues his amendment does that, by maintaining the current prohibition on insurers limiting access to coverage for sick people. But “access” doesn’t necessarily mean people can afford to pay for the plans.4. How easy would it be for states to trim health care coverage?Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.They would have to show that their proposals would either: reduce average premiums, increase enrollment, stabilize the market, stabilize premiums for people with pre-existing conditions, or increase the choice of health plans. States would apply to the federal government for waivers, which could last for up to 10 years and would take effect automatically unless the Department of Health and Human Services had a reason for denial within 60 days.5. Will states want to reduce coverage requirements?The individual insurance market is in trouble in some states, such as Tennessee, where some areas will have no insurers offering plans in 2018. Those states will be most likely to apply for waivers first, says Kim Monk, an analyst with Capital Alpha Partners in Washington.6. Who’s against this plan?Groups representing doctors, hospitals and seniors opposed the initial bill and are against the changes as well. The American Medical Association said it “could effectively make coverage completely unaffordable to people with pre-existing conditions.” AARP and the American Hospital Association said the amendment is worse than the original.7. What’s the outlook in Congress?In the House, which has first crack, it’s unclear whether the proposed changes gain enough support of moderate Republicans. Once again, no Democrats are expected to support the bill, leaving Republicans to find 216 votes on their own side. Should the bill pass the House, the Senate will likely make changes to increase financial help for older, low-income people.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-20/white-house-gop-leaders-at-odds-over-plans-for-obamacare-vote
White House, GOP Leaders at Odds Over Obamacare Vote PlansTrump White House Pushes New Health PlanThe Trump White House and congressional Republicans were at odds Thursday over whether to try for another vote on replacing Obamacare next week, indicating that neither side had a clear strategy for moving on one of the president’s central campaign promises.A White House aide said President Donald Trump’s administration expects the House to vote soon after lawmakers return from recess on Tuesday, and draft language could be circulated as soon as Thursday night. Success would give the president a legislative victory to boast about before his 100th day in office April 29.But a senior House Republican aide said that revised language for a bill hasn’t been agreed on and there’s no text yet for lawmakers to review. There’s no target date for a vote, whether next week or at any future time, the aide said.Trump said that he’s not tied to getting the Obamacare replacement finished by next week. Speaking at a White House news conference with Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, Trump said he wants Congress to work on health-care legislation and a bill to fund the government.“It took Obamacare 17 months; I’ve been negotiating this for two months,” he said. “I’d like to say next week, but I believe we will get it, whether it’s next week or shortly thereafter."House Speaker Paul Ryan said a day earlier while on a trip to London that lawmakers were negotiating “finishing touches.”QuickTake: Insurers in limbo on ObamacareRepeal of the Affordable Care Act was a major Trump campaign promise and a longtime goal of House Republicans. But a vote next week may risk another big political embarrassment like the one in March, when Trump and Ryan abruptly scrapped a vote for lack of Republican support.“The political ramifications of trying to pass a bill and failing is just one piece of this,” said Joshua Huder, a congressional expert at the Government Affairs Institute at Georgetown University. “Members may be desperate to give their constituents something in return for having the majority for four months.”“That pressure to try may be more important than the consequences of falling short again,” he said.House Republicans have been away from Washington for the past two weeks and, for some, town halls held in their districts have drawn anger from constituents over the failed health-care proposal, which the Congressional Budget Office estimated would result in 24 million people losing or dropping health insurance coverage over a decade. Some Republicans have distanced themselves from that plan.Weekend BusinessHouse Republicans plan a conference call Saturday with Ryan and other leaders to discuss the health-care bill as well as spending legislation to keep the government operating when current funding expires at the end of the day April 28.Some proposed changes to the Obamacare repeal bill were circulating among members, including an amendment co-sponsored by Representative Tom MacArthur, a New Jersey Republican and co-chairman of a group of House moderates. His amendment is being depicted as a compromise with conservatives in an effort to draw enough support for passage.The amendment, reported earlier by Huffington Post, would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing conditions in states that get a waiver. To obtain the waiver, states would have to provide sick people priced out of commercial insurance access to a so-called high-risk pool run by the federal government, or establish their own, and satisfy other conditions.Nonessential BenefitsMacArthur’s proposal would also allow states to opt out of Obamacare’s requirement that insurance policies cover "essential" benefits such as maternity care. Those provisions would create cheaper insurance products by allowing companies to effectively exclude high-cost people and expensive care.But the language may not be embraced by all of MacArthur’s fellow House Republican centrists. The underlying bill also is well short of the 50 votes needed to pass in the Senate.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, said in a statement that the "Republicans’ latest plan is to expose Americans with pre-existing conditions to staggering new health costs." Democrats have refused to aid in dismantling former President Barack Obama’s biggest domestic achievement.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.As the Republican fight over health care has dragged on, Obamacare has become more popular with the public. In a Quinnipiac University poll conducted April 12-18, only 36 percent of voters said Republicans should try again to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and 60 percent said lawmakers should “move on to other issues.” Sixty-five percent of those polled said they disapproved of the way Trump was handling the issue.Revenue ThreatThe earlier Republican proposal sought to pull hundreds of billions of dollars out of the health system by winding down Obamacare’s expansion of Medicaid and limiting its subsidies, which would threaten revenue for hospitals, doctors and insurance companies. Much of the savings would be used to pay for tax cuts.Trump demanded a vote on the measure, but Ryan pulled it from the House floor hours before a scheduled vote on March 24 for lack of support from his fellow Republicans. The speaker admitted he was disappointed but insisted Republicans would try again.Under White House prodding two weeks later, Republicans added a provision to the bill that would give health insurers $15 billion over nine years to subsidize the care of high-cost patients.Separately, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Thursday that stumbles on health care haven’t derailed plans to complete a major overhaul of the tax code by the end of the year.“Whether health care gets done or doesn’t get done, we’re going to get tax reform done,” Mnuchin said at a conference in Washington.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-04/trump-white-house-pushes-new-gop-health-bill-deal-lawmakers-say
Trump White House Sells New Health Plan as GOP Seeks DetailsTrump Says GOP Health Bill Was 'Very Close' to PassingHouse lawmakers hope Tuesday to release a new Trump administration-backed version of the health-care bill they had to abandon last month in an embarrassing setback to their pledge to repeal Obamacare.But GOP leaders sought to downplay expectations for a quick vote.“We’re at that conceptual stage right now,” House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters Tuesday morning. “We don’t have bill text or an agreement yet.” GOP leaders barely mentioned health care in the private conference meeting Tuesday morning and offered few details of the plan being devised by the White House.Representative Mark Walker, chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, said Tuesday that the Energy and Commerce Committee is "putting it together and language should be ready this evening."Late Monday, Vice President Mike Pence and White House chief of staff Reince Priebus met with House conservatives to lay out the details of the plan. One lawmaker said it could allow states to charge higher rates to sick people. President Donald Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, was also in the meeting."The president would like to see this done," White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Tuesday. He said he wasn’t seeking to raise expectations about a possible deal but added, "We feel very optimistic about the tone" of the discussions.Several lawmakers, including a close ally of Trump’s, said they think a vote could still occur this week, though Ryan said he didn’t know whether that would happen."The administration is saying it would like it this week," Republican Representative Chris Collins of New York said Tuesday morning. Collins and several Republican moderates went to the White House Monday to discuss the plan.QuickTake: Insurers in Limbo After Obamacare Repeal EffortRepublicans have little space on the calendar to hold a new vote this month. They are scheduled to begin a two-week recess on Friday, and when they return they will have five days to pass a spending measure to keep the government funded after April 28.Mark Meadows, chairman of the hardline House Freedom Caucus, which helped block the last health-care bill, said Monday that he hadn’t seen the administration’s new proposal in writing.“We’re hopeful that we’ll get the legislative text within the next 24 hours,” said North Carolina’s Meadows. “There’s no deal in principle.”The White House and Republicans are discussing a plan that would allow states to apply for waivers on some of Obamacare’s requirements, while still preserving its ban on excluding coverage of those with pre-existing conditions. States would have to show that their waiver “would improve coverage and reduce costs,” Collins said.Representative Phil Roe, a Tennessee Republican on the GOP vote-counting team, said "there’s no question" that the bill’s prospects would be helped by allowing states to opt out of providing essential health benefits as defined by Obamacare. But he said some Republicans raised fears that it would make it harder to allow insurers to sell across state lines.‘Heartless,’ Says PerezDemocratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez on Tuesday called the Republican leadership “heartless” in how they are dealing with a law that extended health care to 24 million people.“I believe anyone who wants to vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act should be required to spend five hours in an emergency room watching what the Affordable Care Act has done in their community and the country,” Perez said on MSNBC.Republican Kevin Cramer of North Dakota sounded a note of skepticism about the new push for a health measure, saying it was an "honest effort" but that there was very little "wiggle room" to make changes that may gain support."I see very little room to tilt the bill one way or another to attract votes without losing an equal number," Cramer said.Freedom CaucusTwo members of the Freedom Caucus — Raul Labrador of Idaho and Scott DesJarlais of Tennessee — wouldn’t say whether they believed the proposed changes would help win their support."It takes a little time to go through it," DesJarlais said. "We want to know what’s in it before we pass it."Meadows said one element eligible for waivers would be Obamacare’s community rating system, which prevents insurers from varying premiums within a geographic area based on age, gender, health status or other factors. Such a change would allow insurers to charge sick people more for coverage.The plan would rely on risk-sharing pools to be the “backstop” for people with pre-existing conditions who could be subject to higher premiums if the requirement on community rating were to be removed, Meadows said. “Marginally sick people” would pay the “risk cost associated with their coverage.”“Those that have premiums that would be driven up because of catastrophic illness or long-term illnesses, we’ve been dealing with that for a long time with high-risk pools, so we believe in doing that is a way to keep premiums down for everybody to ensure everybody’s covered and ultimately where you don’t get priced out of the market,” he added.Meadows said lifetime and annual caps weren’t discussed explicitly, because they aren’t the main drivers of insurance premium costs.Collins said he wouldn’t back a community rating opt-out for states. "I think it might hurt the vote count," he said.‘Hope’ for a VoteWhen asked if the changes Pence offered would lose moderate votes, Meadows said it was his understanding that the administration had met with moderate members and was working to shore up support in the center.Meadows said he instructed his members to be ready to examine the legislative text as soon as it’s available. He said he didn’t necessarily expect that new estimates on the plan’s cost or coverage projections would be available from the Congressional Budget Office before a vote.Within the Freedom Caucus, “all the noes expressed a willingness to look at this,” he said. Meadows said he doesn’t expect the caucus to take an official position supporting or opposing the revised bill, but he would offer a detailed vote count of its members after the text is made available.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-18/universities-seek-to-defend-endowments-from-republican-tax-plan
Universities Seek to Defend Endowments From Republican Tax PlanSome of the richest U.S. colleges are pushing back against scrutiny by Congress over the tax-exempt status of their endowments.Lobbying disclosure forms show almost two dozen schools such as Princeton University, University of Notre Dame and Cornell University are including endowment tax issues in their federal agenda, along with perennial topics such as student loans and funding for scientific research.Orrin Hatch, a Republican from Utah and chairman of the Senate Finance committee, said Monday that college endowments would be included in a tax code review. The tax-exempt status attracted the interest of Congress at a hearing in October 2015 and remained in the spotlight with Republican Congressman Tom Reed’s initial proposal for the largest endowments to spend more on tuition assistance. Two congressional committees responsible for the tax code followed with an inquiry on how the funds are managed.QuickTake: University Endowments Under FireOverall Trend“Endowments are part of that overall trend of things to worry about from Washington,” said Larry Ladd, a director of the higher education practice at Grant Thornton.The accounting and advisory firm included endowments in its annual higher education report, advising clients to “prepare for legislative changes” and to expect an increased focus on operations, costs and spending. Endowment investment income isn’t taxed.Read More: College Endowments Are ReboundingThe term “endowments’’ began appearing on more disclosure forms in the quarter following a Congressional subcommittee hearing in October 2015 and after the joint Senate Finance and House Ways and Means committee inquiry into the richest 56 private colleges. Republicans in Congress and President Donald Trump are expected to tackle tax overhaul.In order to make the tax code more efficient, “Congress must undertake a comprehensive and thorough review of the entire statute,” Hatch said in his statement. “That includes exploring areas of the tax code related to universities and their endowments. I look forward to discussing this topic further with Finance Committee members and the Trump Administration.”Tuition BreaksReed, who represents western New York and was a vice chairman for Trump’s transition team, wants the richest colleges to spend more of their endowment income on tuition breaks for middle-income families.Donors receive tax breaks for giving to nonprofits including colleges. Under Reed’s plan, which is still being developed, individuals may be able to deduct 150 percent of scholarship donations that support working-class students while unrestricted gifts would be deductible at 125 percent. Restricted gifts of more than $5,000 wouldn’t be deductible.Read More: A QuickTake explainer on the riches of university endowmentsThe most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.“Between what has been said on the campaign trail and what we have seen in Congress in recent months and over the last two years, we know this is an issue that’s foremost on some members’ minds,” said Josh Farrelman, head of government relations at the University of Rochester, which has a $1.9 billion fund and some hospital affiliates in Reed’s district. “We are trying to do our jobs in terms of educating what these issues are and addressing some of their concerns.”Schools said that some endowment money is designated by donors for specific purposes and can’t be freely spent. Endowments also invest for the long-term and help fund university operations for current and future generations of students, educators said.Lobbying is another avenue to explain that endowments aren’t simply savings accounts, said Robert Durkee, vice president at Princeton, the fifth-wealthiest college with a $22.2 billion fund.“It gives us a chance to say that half of our operating budget is being funded out of earnings from the endowment,” Durkee said. “We’re using the endowment every year.”Taking MeetingsCornell, located in the Ithaca, New York, district represented by Reed, said school officials met with legislative representatives, according to disclosure forms.“We note that the congressman’s goals align with ours,” Joel Malina, Cornell’s vice president of university relations, said in a statement. “We just disagree on the most effective way of achieving those goals.”Reed has been concerned about rising sticker prices. As the student debt crisis worsens, “it is only fair that we require more transparency to determine whether these schools, which spend millions of dollars lobbying the federal government, are doing so on behalf of their students’ best interest or that of their endowments and Wall Street hedge fund managers,” Reed said in a statement on Monday.Previous EffortEndowments’ tax issues have come up before. Senator Charles Grassley, a Republican from Iowa, said in a September 2007 Senate Finance committee hearing that he was concerned about endowment growth as college tuition continued to rise. Grassley later raised the idea that college endowments should pay 5 percent of their value each year, using the same rule for foundations.While legislation was never introduced, several of the wealthiest colleges changed their financial aid policies, awarding grants that don’t need to be repaid instead of loans. The richest are often the most generous with aid.Harvard, which has the largest endowment in higher education at $35.7 billion, doesn’t ask families who earn less than $65,000 to pay, and some families that make more than $200,000 receive aid. Harvard has included endowments in its lobbying efforts since at least 2014, according to disclosures.“We report on issues that are under consideration in Congress or the executive branch that relate to the education and research mission of the university,” said David Cameron, a spokesman for Harvard. “Issues that relate to the endowment certainly fall into that category. Our efforts thus far have been to generally provide information and insight into the critical role endowments play in fulfilling our academic mission.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-13/trump-moves-against-planned-parenthood-by-signing-gop-measure
Trump Moves Against Planned Parenthood by Signing GOP BillCecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America Inc., speaks during a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing in Washington on Sept. 29, 2015.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/BloombergPresident Donald Trump signed legislation Thursday that would give states the flexibility to withhold federal family planning money from Planned Parenthood.Trump, who has had few opportunities to enact legislation during his first three months in office, signed the measure in private, quietly reversing an Obama administration regulation. The bill overturns a rule that prohibits states from refusing to distribute federal family-planning money to clinics simply because the facilities also perform abortions.The legislation is part of a broader effort by Republicans to cut off federal funding from health-care organizations that perform abortions, a fight that could resurface as Congress tries to avoid a government shutdown at the end of the month.But the measure’s narrow path to Trump’s desk underscores the difficulty the president could face as he targets Planned Parenthood: The bill passed the Senate only after Vice President Mike Pence cast a tie-breaking vote, as two Republican senators opposed efforts to cut the organization’s funding.“This is an important step the administration is taking," Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, told reporters Thursday after Trump signed the bill. “We want states to be in charge of decision-making.”Various StancesTrump has taken various positions on Planned Parenthood. He was one of few Republicans running for president last year to praise the group for the health care it provides women. At the same time, he pledged to defund the organization because it performed abortions.In tweets after his health-care legislation stalled in Congress last month, Trump said Republican opponents of the bill had “saved” Planned Parenthood. The legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act would have limited funding to Planned Parenthood for a year and restricted federal spending on health-care providers that perform abortions.Republican Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa and Republican Representative Diane Black of Tennessee sponsored the legislation Trump signed Thursday, H.J. Res. 43, in part to limit funding to Planned Parenthood.“The Obama administration’s rule emboldened abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, empowered federal bureaucrats, and silenced our states in the process,” Ernst said Thursday in a statement. “Today’s action restores states’ rights over a Washington-knows-best mentality.”The measure took advantage of a mechanism under the Congressional Review Act that allows Congress to circumvent the Senate’s filibuster when overturning regulations issued at the end of the previous administration.‘Dangerous’ PlanPlanned Parenthood has slammed the legislation as a dangerous plan to restrict women’s access to health care.“People are sick and tired of politicians making it even harder for them to access health care, and this bill is just the latest example,” Dawn Laguens, executive vice president of Planned Parenthood, said Thursday in a statement.Two Republican senators -- Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine -- joined Democrats in voting against the legislation, leading to a 50-50 tie. Pence broke the deadlock.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Planned Parenthood clinics received $20.5 million of the $252.6 million distributed under the so-called Title X Family Planning grant program in the 2014 fiscal year, according to Health and Human Services Department figures. The program provides money to county public health departments and local organizations. It supports counseling for contraception, prenatal care and other health services for low-income women. The money can’t be used to provide abortions.In January, Trump signed an executive memorandum reinstating the so-called Mexico City Policy, which prohibits U.S. funding to international family planning groups that promote or pay for abortions.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-19/georgia-house-race-heads-to-runoff-as-democrat-gains-in-gop-area
Georgia House Race Heads to Runoff as Democrat Gains in GOP AreaGeorgia House Race Heads to RunoffDemocrat Jon Ossoff turned in an unexpectedly strong performance Tuesday in the special election to fill a longstanding Republican U.S. House seat in Georgia, emerging as the top vote-getter by far.Ossoff, a filmmaker and former congressional aide, rode a strong backlash to President Donald Trump in the race to fill Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price’s former House seat, but appeared to fall just short of the 50 percent needed to win outright. As of 1 a.m. New York Time, he had 48.3 percent of the vote, with almost 70 percent of the ballots counted.Ossoff and second place finisher Karen Handel, a former Georgia secretary of state, will compete in a runoff election on June 20 for the seat representing suburbs of Atlanta.The result is encouraging for Democrats, who are starting to think about the 2018 congressional elections. Georgia’s sixth congressional district has been held by Republicans for nearly 40 years, since former House Speaker Newt Gingrich was elected in 1978. Price won 61.7 percent of the vote in November, while his Democratic opponents have never cracked 40 percent.The question now is whether Ossoff, who topped 11 Republican challengers Tuesday, can come in first against a united GOP.Handel’s high recognition after statewide races for governor and the U.S. Senate made her a target among her fellow Republicans. In one attack ad, former state Senator Dan Moody accused her of "running for herself," highlighting her series of failed political bids. Club for Growth, a conservative political group, also launched a $250,000 ad buy against Handel.Handel and her allies are now free to devote their full attention to Ossoff.The Democrat’s performance suggests that Trump’s ability to motivate his core supporters to turn out to support other Republican candidates may be limited.Trump weighed in on the race Tuesday over Twitter, urging Republicans to vote and force a runoff. "Democrat Jon Ossoff would be a disaster in Congress. VERY weak on crime and illegal immigration, bad for jobs and wants higher taxes. Say NO," he tweeted. "Republicans must get out today and VOTE in Georgia 6. Force runoff and easy win! Dem Ossoff will raise your taxes-very bad on crime & 2nd A."The attacks followed a similar tweet on Monday. During an interview on CNN Tuesday morning Ossoff encouraged the president to visit his website. "Once again I appreciate the president’s interest. It sounds like he’s misinformed about my priorities," Ossoff said.Georgia’s sixth congressional district had already been less enthusiastic about Trump than more traditional Republicans. While Price won re-election last November by 23 percentage points -- the same margin Mitt Romney won during the 2012 presidential election -- Trump beat Democrat Hillary Clinton in the district by less than 2 percentage points.The race comes one week after Republicans won a closer-than-expected election to fill CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s former House seat in Kansas. Republicans controlled the House 237-193 before that April 11 vote, with three other vacant seats besides the one decided Tuesday in Georgia.The next special election for a House seat will be May 25, when Montana votes on a replacement for Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. The Montana at-large race is less favorable for Democrats. While Trump had under-performed in Price’s former district, both he and Romney won Montana with 55 percent of the vote.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-07/gop-health-plan-relies-on-cutting-payments-to-doctors-hospitals
GOP Health Plan Relies on Cutting Payments to Doctors, HospitalsTrump White House Pushes New Health PlanA Republican health-care plan to lower insurance premiums would need to cut payments to hospitals and doctors to the same level as federally-set Medicare rates and would require billions of dollars in extra government spending to meet its goals, according to an independent analysis of the policy.The Republican amendment made Thursday adds what’s called the Federal Invisible Risk Sharing Program to the legislation to help appease conservatives and get the bill through the House. At a committee meeting to make the changes, one GOP congressman said it would lead to substantially lower premiums.“We had an actuarial firm that did an analysis of this,” Gary Palmer, a Republican from Alabama who was one of the drafters, said Thursday. “What we believe will happen is a significant reduction in premiums.”However, according to a 27-page assessment released Friday by the consulting firm Milliman Inc., such a proposal would likely cost the government far more than the $15 billion total over nine years that Republicans have provided for, and rely on essentially paying government-set rates paid to hospitals, doctors and other health providers to care for some sick individuals.More ExpensiveGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Milliman analyzed several scenarios based on who gets covered under the program, and whether hospitals and doctors get paid at Medicare rates, or the higher amounts typically paid by most private insurers. Under one scenario, at the lower Medicare rates, the program would cost $6.59 billion a year, and would lower premiums by 16 percent to 31 percent. If higher commercial rates were paid, it would cost $11.3 billion a year, and reduce premiums by 12 percent to 23 percent. The estimates include other changes to insurance rules.Without either the additional government spending or the price caps, there would be little effect on premiums, according to the analysis. If funded and successful, it would decrease the number of people without insurance by about 1 million to 2 million.House Republicans are struggling to revive the legislation, known as the American Health Care Act, after pulling it from a vote last month because they lacked the votes to pass it. House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters Thursday that the change to the legislation “makes this a much better bill.”“This amendment alone is real progress and it will help us build momentum toward delivering on our pledge to the country” to repeal and replace Obamacare, Ryan said Thursday.The Milliman analysis was requested by a conservative group called the Foundation for Government Accountability, a think tank that supports the proposal. Congressman Palmer’s press office didn’t reply to an email and a phone call with questions about the Milliman report.Price Controls?David Anderson, a health policy researcher at Duke University, said that the policy looked like a price-control program.“It is structurally single-payer for the chronically ill and expensive, with a private sector front-end sorting system,” said Anderson.Republicans have typically opposed that sort of policy, and there were signs of immediate skepticism on Thursday. Representative Louie Gohmert, a Texas Republican and member of the conservative Freedom Caucus, said he was worried the program would just “give the federal government more power and more money.”The Republican plan would subsidize the costs of expensive, sick patients -- using subsidies to keep down insurance premiums for all by making sure that people with costly conditions don’t drive up premiums for the rest of the population.Under the Milliman analysis, if health insurers kept paying regular rates, instead of the lower Medicare rates, or if there wasn’t any federal or state funding, “the premium reduction would be 0 percent.” Milliman is an actuarial and consulting firm based in Seattle that frequently analyzes the effect of government policy changes.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-30/total-control-is-crippling-the-gop
Total Control Is Crippling the GOPBill Hoagland spent 25 years as a Republican aide in the Senate, a career spanning the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and both George Bushes. He’s old enough to remember when the GOP was capable of tough things, such as comprehensive tax reform. He also remembers when he could count on such creatures as “yellow dog” Democrats, who were conservative enough to be to the right of a handful of liberal Republicans.Fast-forward from Reagan’s 1986 tax reforms. Despite controlling the White House and having one of the largest congressional majorities in its history, Republicans today are tied up in knots. That’s mostly the result of the Tea Party infusing its brand of hard-right sentiment into the GOP. “It’s an element of the party that sees no good in government,” says Hoagland. “Which makes me wonder why they’re even serving in Congress.” The yellow dogs are extinct.House Speaker Paul Ryan faces a deeply divided Republican caucus, with ultraconservatives driving a hard bargain and moderates starting to rebel after years of going along with far-right legislation. In a way, a Republican in the White House deepens the dysfunction, since lawmakers no longer have the luxury of voting for bills they know won’t get signed into law.The divisions forced the GOP into what may be the biggest broken promise in modern political history when it failed to pass its health-care bill. And the animosities aren’t going away. They could vex Ryan’s dream of overhauling the tax code and may even prevent the party from performing basic tasks, such as averting a government shutdown in April or raising the debt limit later this year. That’s not to mention trying to pass the $1 trillion infrastructure bill Donald Trump has promised. “What you’re really seeing with that defeat is the Balkanization of this party,” says Steve Bell, a former longtime Republican budget aide. “We’ve been able to paper it over, but now it’s coming out.”To fully understand the trouble ahead, it’s helpful to remember the recent evolution of House Republicans. In 2010, when the GOP picked up 63 seats and took back the House, the party shifted to the right, empowering the 150-member Republican Study Committee, which was formed in 1973 and for years stood as the House’s hard-right flank. In 2011, Jim Jordan, an Ohioan and former champion wrestler, gained the chairmanship of the RSC. That summer the committee helped engineer the debt ceiling fight. In 2013 it played a role in forcing the government shutdown.But by 2015, Jordan and other archconservatives began to see the RSC as too willing to go along with party leaders and broke off to form the House Freedom Caucus, which Jordan described as a more nimble, action-oriented faction. Within a year they forced out Speaker John Boehner and almost shut down the government again, this time over their demand to defund Planned Parenthood.With about three dozen members, the Freedom Caucus is small, yet it’s big enough to block GOP legislation if its members stick together. And they often do, even at the cost of embarrassing the party and, as in the health-care debate, a Republican president. Caucus members hail mostly from districts that are so Republican that the only political danger they face is from a right-wing challenger. That’s the opposite political dynamic facing their more moderate peers, who worry about Democrats.The health-care fight became even more of a free-for-all when moderate Republicans stood up for themselves after years of being dragged to the right. The Tuesday Group, a faction of about 50 moderates, many of whom represent competitive districts in swing states, showed a newly rebellious side. Its leader, Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, came out against Trump’s American Health Care Act before the vote, lamenting that it would “lead to the loss of coverage” for too many lower-income Americans. Even though the Tuesday Group favored past efforts to gut Obamacare, they never had to worry about the consequences. Faced with a live bill, they balked.A case in point was the battle over Obamacare’s essential health benefits—10 items insurers must provide in their policies. When GOP leaders kept the provision in the original replacement bill, the Freedom Caucus withheld their votes. After GOP leaders agreed to rip them out, moderates walked. “The moderates in our conference and the Freedom Caucus are truly at opposite ends of the issues,” says Representative Chris Collins, a New York Republican. “And so you get one, you lose one, you get one, you lose one.”In the face of this push-and-pull, Ryan has an almost impossible job of uniting the party. The forces that stymied Boehner remain in place. “This isn’t a matter of Ryan not being capable,” says Bell, the former budget aide. “This is a matter of arithmetic.”The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.Ryan’s push to pass a tax-reform bill won’t be any easier. The Freedom Caucus is already angling against a key component: revenue neutrality, where any tax cut is offset by equal revenue increases. Without offsets for tax cuts, an overhaul can’t be permanent without Senate Democratic support; it’ll have to be limited to 10 years. The main offset Ryan has proposed, a border adjustment provision to raise taxes for net importers and cut them for exporters, has divided the Right.While Ryan can afford to lose some 20 Republicans in the House and still pass bills without Democratic support, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has 52 GOP votes, and most bills require 60 votes. Funding bills and debt limit increases, both of which require 60, are likely to get caught in the crossfire.With the government set to run out of funding on April 28, conservatives in the House, spoiling for a win, want to use both issues to push for steep cuts to programs for the middle class and poor, which won’t sit well with the Tuesday Group. The Freedom Caucus also wants to defund Planned Parenthood, which Democrats won’t support.Altogether, it’s enough to make Republicans wonder if they’re even capable of governing anymore. Hoagland, the former GOP aide, sees only one way out for Ryan: work with Democrats. “It may be difficult for the speaker,” he says, “but it also is the way legislation used to be done around here.”The bottom line: Divisions inside the GOP that scuttled its health-care reform could keep it from preventing a government shutdown.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-03-30/trump-in-beginning-phases-of-tax-talk-as-house-mulls-changes
Congress Weighs Options to Soften Controversial Centerpiece of GOP Tax PlanTrump, Mnuchin Turn Focus to Tax ReformCongress is considering options to soften a controversial centerpiece of the House Republicans’ tax plan -- a step that might mean smaller tax cuts for corporations -- as President Donald Trump begins the process of crafting a tax overhaul plan.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said during a press conference Thursday that the administration is “at the first stages of the process” in overhauling the tax code and beginning to engage with Congress. Spicer said the timeline for a tax rewrite could take several months as the White House seeks input from “lots of people” who have different points of view.Representative Kevin Brady, who chairs the House Ways and Means Committee, has said congressional tax-writers are already considering “significant modifications” to a plan that would tax companies’ domestic sales and imports, while exempting exports, a so-called border-adjusted tax, or BAT.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.While any changes haven’t been revealed, House leaders’ plan to cut the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from its current 35 percent depends in part on the BAT, a proposal that has sparked opposition from retailers, oil refiners and other companies that rely on imported materials. The border-adjusted component is important because it’s estimated to raise more than $1 trillion in new revenue -- helping to pay for the steep rate cut.Whether Trump would sign on to a modified BAT remains to be seen. He was briefed Thursday on what may be a wide range of alternatives during a meeting that included Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Gary Cohn, the chairman of his National Economic Council. Mnuchin and Cohn, a former president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., are said to oppose the BAT concept in the House GOP plan.‘Dead Letter’One option under congressional consideration is a “mini-BAT,” said Stephen Moore, an economist who advised the Trump campaign on tax policy. The concept would reduce the tax rate on imports from the 20 percent that Ryan and Brady propose to around 5 percent, Moore said. Domestic sales would still be taxed at 20 percent.“A BAT is a dead letter at 20 percent,” said Moore, a fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation who isn’t working for Trump’s White House but said he speaks to lawmakers regularly.House leaders don’t view the border-adjustment concept as a take-it-or-leave it measure, said Emily Schillinger, a spokeswoman for the Ways and Means panel. She declined to comment on any specific changes that are under consideration.Ryan and Trump have both called for a heavy corporate tax-rate cut. During his campaign, Trump proposed taking the corporate income-tax rate down to 15 percent. House leaders want to scrap the corporate income tax entirely and replace it with the 20 percent border-adjusted tax on companies’ domestic cash flow.Trump’s goals will be to address a middle-class tax cut and corporate tax overhaul in ways that provide simplification, lower rates and grow jobs and the economy, Spicer said Thursday.Higher RateIf the tax applied to imports was reduced to just a single-digit rate, the overall corporate rate would have to be higher -- around 26 to 28 percent, said Dean Zerbe, national managing director at tax consulting firm Alliantgroup. That’s provided that Congress wanted to balance rate cuts with new revenue.Roger Altman, who served as deputy U.S. Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, also said a corporate rate in the range of 25 to 28 percent was more likely. He deemed the border-adjusted tax likely “dead,” during a Bloomberg TV interview Thursday morning. Altman, founder of Evercore Partners Inc., said there’s a 50-50 chance of a tax overhaul happening in 2017.Maintaining revenue neutrality is important for Republicans’ hopes of avoiding rules that require 60 votes in the Senate, where they hold a 52-seat majority. If tax cuts were found to add to the deficit, they’d have to be sunset after 10 years or go through the regular-order process, which would mean they’d need some Democrats’ support.Some Republicans -- stinging from the failed health-care legislation last week -- might opt for the temporary approach. Others might content themselves with shallower rate cuts.“Folks are more keen on getting a win than anything else,” said Zerbe, a former tax counsel for the Senate Finance Committee from 2001 to 2008.Administration ‘Driving’In the wake of the decision to cancel a vote on the health-care legislation last week, Trump’s aides have sought to emphasize that the administration will be “driving the train on tax reform,” as Spicer put it this week.Spicer said Wednesday that “we’re in the beginning phases” of discussing both taxes and another Trump proposal to boost U.S. spending on infrastructure by as much as $1 trillion. The infrastructure plan would depend on both public and private money, Trump has said -- though he hasn’t specified a breakdown.The border-adjustment tax will be among the topics discussed during Trump’s Thursday briefing, according to people familiar with the meeting. The session may be fairly comprehensive.For example, Representative James Renacci, an Ohio Republican on the Ways and Means panel, has proposed replacing the corporate income tax with a type of value-added tax -- that is, a tax on companies’ sales that would be reduced by credits for the taxes they paid on purchases -- at a 7 percent rate.Renacci, a certified public accountant, said he’s skeptical that the border-adjusted tax would work, and that there’s only mixed support for the concept on the Ways and Means committee. Meanwhile, he said, Cohn has assured him that parts of his plan would be included as options during tax-overhaul discussions.“I’m happy to hear that they’re going to look at everything,” he said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-20/exxon-gets-backing-of-gop-led-states-in-fight-over-climate-probe
Exxon Gets Backing of GOP-Led States in Fight Over Climate ProbeTexas Attorney General Ken Paxton and 10 of his Republican counterparts are joining forces in court to help derail a probe into whether Exxon Mobil Corp. misled investors about climate change.The investigation by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and his Massachusetts counterpart, Maura Healey, is an attempt to censor scientific opposition to the theory that human activity is warming the planet, the group said in a filing this week in federal court in Manhattan.Schneiderman and Healey, both Democrats, "falsely presume that the scientific debate regarding climate change is settled," the group said, adding that the state probes are using government power to chill free speech.New York and Massachusetts have been investigating since 2015 whether Exxon misled the public and investors for years about climate change by withholding information about how it could impact the company’s finances. Exxon’s lawsuit seeks to block their subpoenas for millions of pages of documents and executives’ internal emails about climate change."We will continue to pursue our fraud investigation under New York law, despite attempts by Exxon and Big Oil’s beneficiaries to delay and distract from the serious issues at hand,” Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, said in an email.States’ RightsExxon, based in Irving, Texas, has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and claims the state probes were started in "bad faith" because the outcome had been predetermined based on ideological coordination with environmental groups and even former Vice President Al Gore, an outspoken opponent of climate change."The attorneys general have raised important constitutional and legal issues in support of our position that the investigations by New York and Massachusetts are politically based and in bad faith," Exxon spokesman Alan Jeffers said by email.In Monday’s filing, the attorneys general of the mostly Republican-led states said their investigative power "does not include the right to engage in unrestrained, pretextual investigative excursions to promote one side of an international public-policy debate."However, it’s common for state officials to pursue investigations that are international in scope. Attorneys general in states led by Republicans and Democrats have probed human trafficking, allegations of consumer fraud and environmental violations by German automaker Volkswagen AG, and mortgage fraud by international banks.Public IssuesAttorneys general have also undertaken probes related to high-profile issues of public policy. Texas started an inquiry after an undercover video purported to show one of Planned Parenthood’s senior directors discussing the sale of fetal tissue. Several other investigations into the video found no wrongdoing.The most important market news of the day.Get our markets daily newsletter.The filing in the Exxon case follows questions about the role of former Chief Executive Officer Rex Tillerson, now U.S. Secretary of State, after Schneiderman found that Tillerson had used a secondary email account under the alias “Wayne Tracker” to discuss climate-change risks and other important matters with the company’s board. Exxon failed to disclose the emails under a subpoena, Schneiderman said in court filing. The company has denied that the move was intentional and instead blames a technical glitch.The other states that signed the brief in support of Exxon are Louisiana, South Carolina, Alabama, Michigan, Arizona, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Utah and Arkansas. Louisiana is led by a Democratic governor, but the attorney general who signed the brief is a Republican.The case is Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Schneiderman, 17-cv-02301, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-05/voters-approved-wage-hikes-but-gop-lawmakers-have-other-ideas
Voters Approved Wage Hikes, But GOP Lawmakers Have Other IdeasVoters took to the polls in November and approved big hikes in four states’ minimum wages: Washington State, Colorado, Maine and Arizona.But the increases may not actually take effect as voters intended because elected representatives -- mostly Republicans -- are moving to rein them in. In Washington, where voters opted for a $13.50 an hour minimum wage by 2020, and Maine, where it was set to rise to $12 that year, state legislators have proposed a battery of bills to water down the increases. The city council in Flagstaff, Arizona has done the same to a local initiative that would have boosted the wage floor to $12 this year, sooner than the statewide increase.“You have the voters on the one hand who are saying, ‘This is what we need, this is what our communities need,’ and then you have policy makers coming in and saying, ‘Well, what you need isn’t good for you,’” says Heather Boushey, the executive director of the left-of-center Washington Center for Equitable Growth.The bills represent the latest round in a long-running debate among cities, states, voters and courts over who gets to set wage rates and other workplace rules. With the federal minimum static at $7.25 since 2009, and little hope of movement in the Republican-controlled Congress, labor groups and Democrats have turned to state and local bills and ballot measures, securing $15 wage laws in states like California and cities around the country. On Election Day in 2014, voters approved smaller increases in deep-red Arkansas, Alaska, Nebraska and South Dakota.Minimum Wage and Jobs/Pay Tradeoff That May Not Exist: QuickTakeBusiness groups have also sought to contain such efforts, which they say kill jobs and leave an unwieldy patchwork of policies. They’ve filed lawsuits including a still-pending challenge to Washington’s new wage hike and one against Arizona’s, which that state’s top court unanimously rejected March 14. They’ve also helped push laws to block local wage increases in states like Alabama and Iowa by denying cities the authority to set their own labor standards.Liberal groups such as the NAACP have responded with lawsuits of their own, including one that contends the mostly-white Alabama legislature’s override of mostly-black Birmingham’s minimum wage law violates the 1965 Voting Rights Act. In 2015, South Dakota Governor Dennis Daugaard signed a law excluding workers under 18 from his state’s new voter-approved minimum wage, which voters then invalidated in another referendum last fall. But legislators in other states are following in Daugaard’s footsteps.Read more: Minimum Wage, Pot Seen as Paths to Votes for Democrats in 2016“It just makes it that much better for the public,” says Maine Republican State Senator Scott Cyrway, the sponsor of a bill allowing his state’s minors to be paid less than the new minimum wage. “It’s trying to help the economy and help our kids learn work ethic and help business people to hire teenagers.”Cyrway’s bill is one of nine proposing changes to the new $12 minimum wage law that are slated to be considered by a joint House-Senate labor committee at hearings Wednesday. Others would instead freeze the state’s minimum at $9 an hour; stop it from being indexed to inflation; or forbid it from exceeding the average minimum wage in New England.“We don’t want to be in the position where we start to bleed jobs,” said Republican Michael Thibodeau, Maine’s state senate president. “Maine can’t afford to be an outlier.”Thibodeau and other legislators compare the minimum wage referendum to the marijuana legalization voters also approved in November, to which legislators plan to add additional safety safeguards. He says the wage hike threatens to have negative consequences voters didn’t see coming, like driving jobs to neighboring states.Minimum Wage Rise Means Fight Over Who Pays for Lunch: QuickTakeThe evidence doesn’t support such fears, says economist Michael Reich, who chairs the Center on Wage and Employment Dynamics at University of California, Berkeley. "Nobody’s going to travel several miles in rush hour, or any kind of traffic, to save a nickel on a hamburger," says Reich, who co-authored a study of thirty-five years of data on restaurants along state borders and found no job-killing effects from minimum wage increases. "It’s just not what happens."The most likely change to pass in Maine is a restoration of the “tip credit,” the differential between the general minimum wage and the lower rate that companies can pay to tipped employees. Under the referendum, tipped workers would eventually be owed the same minimum wage from their employers as everyone else, as is already the case in states like California. Legislators from both parties have proposed going back to Maine’s prior law, under which servers get half of what non-tipped employees like dishwashers are owed. Republicans control the governorship as well as the state senate; while Democrats hold 77 of the 151 seats in the state house, half a dozen Democrats have co-sponsored bills restoring the tip credit. “I call myself a ‘Jobs Democrat,’ and I think this is a jobs issue,” said one of them, Representative Martin Grohman.Servers’ PayDemocrats in Maine have revoked raises for servers in the state’s crucial restaurant industry before. City council members in Portland, the state’s largest city, voted in 2015 to cancel an increase in tipped workers’ minimum wage that they’d approved a couple months earlier as part of an overall wage increase. The legislators said the increase for tipped workers had been included in the law by mistake.“It’s easy to throw tipped workers under the bus,” said Heather McIntosh, a restaurant server who says she’ll be more vulnerable to sexual harassment if the legislature leaves her reliant on customers’ tips in lieu of the full minimum wage that voters intended. “Without it, I oftentimes have to grin and bear it.”Some legislators are urging against watering down the new wage increase. “I think the ballot question was clear, and I think voters did understand the question,” said State Senator Shenna Bellows, a Democrat who represents a district that backed both President Trump and the new minimum wage. “For me, the will of voters is extraordinarily important."State Ballot Measures in 2016 Reflect Shift to Left: Paula DwyerSuch arguments don’t sway Washington State Senator Michael Baumgartner, who introduced bills to delay the minimum wage increases for voters there, and to carve out non-profits and minor employees. “A lot of times voters just don’t have full information or recognize the impact,” he said.Legislators have already amended a wage hike in Flagstaff, where the city council voted March 21 to void a provision of November’s local ballot measure that would have required the city’s minimum wage to exceed the state’s by at least $2. Because Arizonans also voted in November to hike the statewide minimum, that provision would have brought Flagstaff’s wage floor up to $12 by July. “We listened to all of these extreme viewpoints and said, ‘Hey, we have to do something reasonable,’” said Democratic council member Jim McCarthy.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.While Republicans control Arizona’s governorship and legislature, the statewide minimum wage is shielded by the state’s “Voter Protection Act,” which prevents lawmakers from amending voter-approved laws unless the changes have at least three-quarters support in each house of the legislature and also “further the purpose” of the initiative. Republicans say the unintended consequences from the minimum wage hike illustrate the need to let legislators intervene.“A lot of the folks out there are presenting this as the legislature trying to attack the voters,” said Arizona House Speaker J.D. Mesnard, who last year unsuccessfully proposed an initiative to make it easier to amend other initiatives. “The people who are saying that are all special interests.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-03-30/gop-should-go-it-alone-in-easing-wall-street-rules-senator-says
GOP Should Go It Alone on Gutting Bank Rules, Senator SaysRepublicans can’t count on Democrats backing any major effort to ease banking rules during Donald Trump’s presidency, so it could be time for the GOP to go it alone, a key lawmaker said Thursday.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Making big changes to the Dodd-Frank Act that would rein in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or limit regulators’ ability to provide a lifeline to failing banks probably won’t win bipartisan support, U.S. Senator Pat Toomey said Thursday. That’s why Republicans should force through some revisions to the 2010 law through a budget process known as reconciliation that won’t require votes from Democratic senators, the Pennsylvania Republican said.“I don’t see much prospect," to persuading enough Democrats to approve legislation, Toomey said at a conference in Washington sponsored by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “We need to be willing to proceed using reconciliation."Toomey has previously recommended using reconciliation to reduce constraints on banks, but his Thursday remarks were the most pessimistic he’s been about securing bipartisan support to overhaul Dodd-Frank. His views could put him at odds with Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, who has stressed the need to work with Democrats on any revamp of financial regulations.‘Rocky Start’“I expect a bipartisan effort," Crapo, an Idaho Republican, said at the same chamber event Thursday. “We have a lot to do to get our economy back on track," which will require support "from both sides of the aisle," he said.Crapo said he’s optimistic about working with Ohio’s Sherrod Brown, the banking panel’s top Democrat, to identify legislation that they can move quickly. He said a package of broader reforms, including on issues like housing and economic growth, is likely to come after the Senate tackles changes to the tax code.Toomey said Republicans are off to a “rocky” start this year in advancing their agenda, despite the fact that they control Congress and the White House. Last week, they suffered a significant setback when they failed to get a bill to replace Obamacare through the House.But Republicans can still accomplish a top Trump goal of dismantling some parts of Dodd-Frank if they do it through a budget bill, said Toomey, who is a member of the Senate banking panel. A top objective is changing the structure of the CFPB -- a regulator that Republicans blame for curtailing bank lending -- to reduce the power of its director, he said.Slim MajorityMost major pieces of legislation need 60 votes in the Senate, where Republicans have just 52 of the 100 seats. Because approving measures through reconciliation requires just a simple majority, the GOP has tried to use it to achieve goals such as scrapping Obamacare.Still, Republicans are constrained in what they can do with reconciliation, because they have to show that any legislative changes they are pursuing will have a direct impact on federal spending. Toomey stressed that it would be hard to apply reconciliation to all aspects of Dodd-Frank.Trump, who has called Dodd-Frank a “disaster,” signed an executive order earlier this year instructing regulators to examine financial rules and file a report on their findings, kicking off what the administration has promised will be a broad rewrite.In the House, Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican, is planning to reintroduce a package of legislation that would take a red pen to most of the banking law. The Senate Banking panel hasn’t proposed a plan for revamping Dodd-Frank.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-30/republicans-seek-way-to-make-cost-sharing-payments-to-insurers
GOP Seeks Way to Pay Insurers So More Don't Drop ACA PlansRepublican lawmakers are seeking a way to guarantee that health insurers get $7 billion promised to them to help low-income people afford the out-of-pocket costs of Obamacareplans, in an effort to keep more companies from leaving markets created by the law.The payments are threatened by a lawsuit that GOP House members filed during the Obama administration that argues the Department of Health and Human Services inappropriately funded the payments on its own, rather than going through the congressional appropriations process. Insurers have said they would consider nonpayment a breach of contract and may drop the plans mid-year, Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican who chairs a key health committee, told reporters in the Capitol on Thursday.“I will do everything I can to make sure the cost-sharing reduction payments get made, especially this year where they were promised by the federal government under the contracts,” said Walden, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “That’s an obligation not only to insurers but also to the people who took on those plans. We cannot leave them high and dry.”Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.Several big insurers have already retreated from the ACA, often called Obamacare, because of financial losses, and more may follow suit. UnitedHealth Group Inc. and Aetna Inc. have left ACA markets in most states, while Humana Inc. is planning to stop offering individual ACA plans entirely for 2018. Analysts at Jefferies wrote in a research note that Anthem Inc. is considering pulling back from the Obamacare market next year.Separation of PowersWhile the payments are being made as the issue works its way through the courts, the lawsuit heightens insurers’ uncertainty about whether the funds will continue to be available. House Speaker Paul Ryan said the suit concerns a vital issue and will continue.“We don’t want to drop the lawsuit because we believe in the separation of powers,” Ryan said Thursday. “We believe in Congress retaining its lawmaking power.”Walden said the funds needed for the payments should be appropriated by Congress when lawmakers are expected to pass legislation to continue funding the government by April 28 or face a shutdown. The money would be available next year, and Republicans hope to have worked out a deal to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act by then.Republican leaders’ proposal to repeal and replace Obamacare, the American Health Care Act, failed to garner the votes needed to pass last week. The bill didn’t address the issue of how to fund the cost-sharing payments.“It is a big issue we need to address in the future, and probably sooner rather than later, because the insurers are trying to figure out” what the marketplace will look like in 2018 and whether they’ll have the cost-sharing reductions, Walden said.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-06/senate-gop-ready-to-give-trump-nuclear-win-on-high-court-pick
Senate GOP Ready to Give Trump ‘Nuclear’ Win on High Court PickThe Senate Drama of a Supreme Court FilibusterPresident Donald Trump is set to win the most significant achievement of his troubled administration when the Senate clears the way Thursday for the confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, but the episode will leave the Senate battered and paralyzed.Senate Republicans plan to override Democratic opposition with a rule change to shield Neil Gorsuch and all future high court picks from being blocked by the minority party.The GOP’s unilateral action, known as the "nuclear option," will be the latest step in a bitter, years-long fight over nominations and will likely fuel even greater partisan discord in Congress.QuickTake  U.S. Supreme CourtTrump’s nomination of Gorsuch drew widespread approval among Republicans and has been a rare bright spot for the president amid court rulings halting his immigration order, Republicans’ inability to agree on an Obamacare repeal, and investigations of potential connections between Russia and Trump’s presidential campaign.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says he has no choice but to change Senate rules because Democrats plan to block Gorsuch, a judge on a Denver-based federal appeals court, in a partisan filibuster he calls unprecedented.“Democrats are bowing to hard-left special interests that can’t get over the results of the election and thus are demanding complete Democratic opposition on everything this president touches,” McConnell said Wednesday on the Senate floor.QuickTake: Why the Senate is Ready to Chip Away at FilibustersGet the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.Democrats say Gorsuch is outside the judicial mainstream and will restore the Supreme Court’s 5-4 conservative tilt that existed before the February 2016 death of Justice Antonin Scalia. Gorsuch, 49, is young enough to help shape the court for decades to come, and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said he is probably more conservative than Republican appointees Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito.Democrats have the right to use every tool to keep him off the court, Schumer said Wednesday.Republicans face “a simple choice,” Schumer said. “They can fundamentally alter the rules and traditions of this great body or they can sit down with us Democrats and the president to come up with a mainstream nominee who can earn bipartisan support and pass the Senate.”When the Senate Goes ‘Nuclear’ to Confirm Gorsuch, Here’s the ScriptAfter the rule change, the Senate plans to confirm Gorsuch on Friday with a simple majority vote. That will let him join the nation’s highest court in time for its last arguments of the term later this month.Congress will move on to big debates over government spending, a debt-limit increase, border security, a tax overhaul and infrastructure. Even after Thursday’s planned rule change, Democrats will keep the ability to block legislation by demanding a 60-vote threshold, so the minority party’s support will be needed in a chamber Republicans control 52-48.44 DemocratsDemocrats Secure Votes to Block Gorsuch ConfirmationMcConnell is expected to instigate the rule change Thursday after a morning vote on whether to advance Gorsuch’s nomination to final confirmation. Only four Democrats say they’ll vote with Republicans -- Michael Bennet of Colorado, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Joe Donnelly of Indiana. Forty-four Democrats plan to vote no, denying the 60 votes needed to move the nomination forward.McConnell then will probably assert that only a simple majority is required to advance high court nominees. Republicans can make that the new rule by majority vote.The debate over Gorsuch comes after Republicans’ refusal last year to consider President Barack Obama’s choice for the high court vacancy, Judge Merrick Garland. Senator Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat, held the Senate floor for 15 hours Tuesday night through Wednesday morning to express his anger.“To confirm anyone but Merrick Garland to this seat confirms the Senate as the thief who took a seat for the first time in history and transported it to another president in an effort to pack the court,” Merkley said.‘Highly Qualified’Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, said the rule change was instigated by Democrats, who also used the filibuster to block appellate court nominees under President George W. Bush.“We don’t conduct partisan filibusters of Supreme Court nominees, and we certainly are not going to start with this highly qualified nominee,” Grassley said.Democrats ended the filibuster for executive-branch and lower-court nominees when they were the majority party in 2013, following years of Republican obstruction of Obama’s nominees.Arizona Republican John McCain tried to negotiate an agreement to avoid the rule change but gave up early this week, saying the Senate is more partisan than in 2005 when he led bipartisan talks that headed off a similar confrontation.Even Republicans who back the new rule warn that easing hurdles for Supreme Court nominees will cause the court and Congress to become more partisan. McCain and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina say presidents could choose nominees with more extreme views because they wouldn’t need bipartisan support for confirmation.“Now that we are entering into an era where a simple majority decides all judicial nominations, we will see more and more nominees from the extremes of both the left and the right,” McCain said on the Senate floor Wednesday. “I do not see how that will ensure a fair and impartial judiciary. In fact, I think the opposite will be true and Americans will no longer be confident of equal protection under the law.”
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-28/the-only-real-lesson-from-trump-s-100-days
The Only Real Lesson From Trump's 100 DaysPresidents have had worse weeks than the one ending Donald Trump's first 100 days in office, but most of the examples I can think of include resignation and worse. So far this week (and he still has one more day!) Trump has retreated or been defeated on his Mexico wall, on NAFTA, on sanctuary cities, and on health care reform. The administration went through something like three positions on North Korea. Trump rolled out a tax reform "plan" that not only has been ridiculed from all sides, but is also basically dead on arrival; Trump's one-page of bullet points is vague enough that any Congressional product may resemble it, but he's not likely to be a significant player in shaping what House and Senate Republicans choose to do.Beyond that, Trump gave a series of interviews which mostly served to furnish up new humiliations for him, whether it was complaining to Reuters about how unexpectedly hard the job was or obsessing to AP about cable TV news. Other 100-days profiles featured White House staff and Trump friends basically saying the president is ... a moron?“If you’re an adviser to him, your job is to help him at the margins,” said one Trump confidante. “To talk him out of doing crazy things.”A toddler?Advisers have tried to curtail Trump’s idle hours, hoping to prevent him from watching cable news or calling old friends and then tweeting about it. That only works during the workday, though—Trump’s evenings and weekends have remained largely his own.Also this week, investigations on the Trump-Russia scandal continued with new revelations about former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, and a misfire by Ivanka Trump (rapidly walked back) reminded everyone of Trump's other big scandal involving conflicts of interest, nepotism, emoluments, and more.I suspect I'm missing a few more.The good news? It's always possible Trump could at least somewhat turn it around. He could hire a real chief of staff empowered to clean up the White House. He could start doing the work he's supposed to be doing -- learning about policy and process. Yes, he does have some potential assets to build on if he is capable of doing so. For that matter, he could still divest his holdings and put an end to what is basically a lawless presidency.Realistically, however? What's happening is exactly what anyone with any sense knew what would happen if he became president -- indeed, I agree with Ross Douthat that we've been relatively lucky that it hasn't been worse. We can hope he'll improve as he goes along, but there's really no sign of it so far, and no realistic reason to expect it.So what's the big lesson in Trump's first 100 days?It's the same one that's been obvious all along: Republican party actors should have done whatever it took to defeat his nomination when they had the chance. Nominations matter, and none more so than the presidential nomination, and they are worth fighting -- hard -- over.That's mainly because a party only gets so many opportunities at the presidency, and it's a disaster for groups within the party to waste them -- think Jimmy Carter and the Democrats' failure to achieve important policy goals in 1977 to 1980. It's also because of the electoral damage an unpopular presidency can inflict on the party, as we've seen in the last three midterm elections.And it's because presidential nominations are part of defining and (re-)creating the party itself, so that once a party is stuck with a nominee they are stuck with whatever that nominee does. Especially if that nominee wins the White House. As a result of Trump, some groups will be elevated within the Republican Party and others will be sidelined; the party will come to stand for some policies and not others; some individuals who rose with Trump will be empowered within the party or at least become credentialed as high-profile representatives of the party for years, maybe decades, to come.We'll never know whether another Republican would have won the 2016 election or not. We'll never know how, as a worst-case scenario for defeating Trump, how an ugly convention with the party "stealing" the nomination from him would have played out. My guess is it would have been just fine; Trump's a paper tiger, and those who swore they were loyal to him would have wound up happy to support any nominee against Hillary Clinton. I certainly can't prove that, however.But it doesn't matter. Nominating Donald Trump damaged the Republican Party, with the only remaining questions having to do with how bad that damage is. Party leaders let everyone else down by letting this happen. They deserve the blame, and their successors need to learn from this: Never again.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-07/gop-said-moving-toward-unenforceable-version-of-net-neutrality
GOP Said Moving Toward `Unenforceable' Version of Net NeutralityA Republican proposal to undo Obama-era net neutrality rules would hand responsibility to prevent abuses by internet service providers to an agency that critics say lacks adequate power.U.S. Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai is said to be planning a proposal to strip his agency of strong authority over broadband and let the Federal Trade Commission police fair treatment of web traffic. Pai outlined the plan in a meeting April 4 with broadband trade groups, two people familiar with the gathering said on Friday. The people requested anonymity because the proposal has not yet been made public.Exclusive insights on technology around the world.Get Fully Charged, from Bloomberg Technology.“Given the incentives and abilities of broadband providers to harm internet openness, all Americans should be extremely concerned,” Mignon Clyburn, the sole Democrat among the FCC’s three commissioners, said in an emailed statement. “Press reports suggest this administration’s approach to net neutrality will simply be to ask for unenforceable commitments instead of looking out for the best interests of competitors and consumers.”The FCC can establish clear rules, while the FTC reacts when companies fall short of promises to consumers, said Gigi Sohn, a fellow at the Open Society Foundations policy group who helped craft the net-neutrality rules while an aide for former FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler.Companies could simply change their terms of service to evade FTC enforcement, Sohn said.“Terms of service could change any time,” Sohn said. “At best it’s a temporary promise.”At issue are net-neutrality rules passed by FCC Democrats in 2015 that bar internet service providers from blocking or slowing web traffic. The agency opted to base its rules in strong legal authority known as Title II -- the same grounding that enables close regulation of telephone providers.Pai, a Republican, has said he favors an open internet and opposes Title II. Ending that authority eliminates the chance the FCC could regulate broadband rates -- a power that Democrats who passed the rule said they declined to exercise.Under the FCC’s Title II claim, internet service providers are common carriers exempt from trade commission authority. If the claim is dropped, the FCC may not be able to enforce its rules and the FTC could step in.Backers say the FTC is up to the task of policing web-traffic practices.The agency, which promotes competition, could wield its power if broadband providers abuse their position, Maureen Ohlhausen, the FTC’s acting chairman, said in a January article in the Colorado Technology Law Journal.“Net neutrality proponents too easily dismiss antitrust,” Ohlhausen wrote. “Antitrust is up to the job.”“Anticompetitive discrimination would be the exception, rather than the norm, and when it materializes, antitrust enforcement is waiting,” Ohlhausen wrote.Broadband providers led by AT&T Inc. and Comcast Corp. challenged the FCC’s net neutrality rule last year and lost in a federal appeals court.Groups at the meeting with Pai included NCTA-the Internet & Television Association, representing cable providers; CTIA, representing wireless providers; and USTelecom, representing AT&T and Verizon Communications Inc., two people familiar with the meeting said.The plan may be put up for a vote at an FCC meeting set for May 18, said one person familiar with the discussion. Mark Wigfield, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-20/carbon-taxes-gain-conservative-followers
Carbon Taxes Gain Conservative FollowersLast July, Tommy Wells, director of the District of Columbia’s Department of Energy and Environment, received the final copy of a report that had been in the works for more than a year. Its subject: how to make Washington the first major city in the U.S. to adopt a carbon tax. The 51-page document laid out a framework for instituting a levy that prices emissions of greenhouse gases roughly in line with the cost of their environmental damage, then giving the revenue—projected at about $200 million a year—back to taxpayers. The report was never released, however, not even to the city council. Bloomberg obtained a copy through a public records request. The department, Wells said in a statement, “does not have an interest in promoting or implementing a carbon tax.”D.C.’s tradition of embracing liberal causes might have made it seem an obvious candidate for a carbon tax. The brief flirtation is a case study on how the politics around such a notion have shifted. Indeed, even as Donald Trump begins dismantling federal regulations aimed at curbing emissions of heat-trapping gases, carbon taxes are winning conservative backing.In the U.S., the idea of a carbon tax first entered national politics in the early 1990s, when President Bill Clinton proposed a tax on energy championed by Vice President Al Gore; support split along party lines. What followed was a long, slow decline in enthusiasm among centrist Democrats. By the 2016 presidential primaries, Senator Bernie Sanders underlined his outsider status by trumpeting a carbon tax; Hillary Clinton stayed noncommittal (her campaign manager internally called the idea “lethal”).The federal pullback on climate has prompted cities and states to think about what they can do on their own; legislatures in at least seven states are considering carbon taxes. However, as more jurisdictions weigh actual proposals, the difficulty of securing approval for such levies—from legislators or voters—is increasingly apparent. In the states where carbon tax bills are pending, including Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and New York, only two bills have made it out of committee, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. In Washington state, 59 percent of voters last November nixed a ballot initiative that would have used revenue from a carbon tax to offset cuts in sales and business taxes.“I think some conservatives see an opportunity to shape a positive agenda for climate change in the Republican Party.” —Adele MorrisIn 2015 the D.C. government awarded a contract to the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, run by former Environmental Protection Agency Deputy Administrator Bob Perciasepe, to come up with a blueprint. The report that Perciasepe’s group delivered last summer recommended focusing on the energy use of the city’s 128,000 buildings (including federal properties), which account for 75 percent of Washington’s greenhouse gas emissions. Most of the rest comes from transportation, which the report said should be excluded from the tax because many of the region’s drivers buy gas outside the district.The report recommended starting the tax at $45 per ton of emissions—close to what the federal government has calculated as the toll attributable to those emissions, which economists call the social cost of carbon. The money raised would be returned to the public via tax cuts or rebates.Wells says the city didn’t proceed because it’s introduced other surcharges on utility bills to fund grants for solar power and energy efficiency projects. He argues those are more effective means of reducing D.C.’s carbon footprint than relying on prices to alter energy consumption. “What the carbon tax does not do, it doesn’t directly reinvest,” he says.Conservative climate activists say the city’s government-imposed solution is wrong and that the market-based forces of a carbon tax are more efficient in reducing greenhouse emissions. “The solution that D.C. has landed on seems to be more in keeping with a planning-oriented ideology than a revenue-neutral carbon tax would be,” says Eli Lehrer, president of the R Street Institute, a think tank that advocates limited government.During the last presidential campaign, Trump tweeted he would “not support or endorse a carbon tax.” But not everyone in his circle shares the view. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson supported a carbon tax as chief executive of Exxon Mobil Corp.; so does Tesla Inc. Chairman Elon Musk, an informal Trump adviser.Ted Halstead, the founder of the Climate Leadership Council, a group of prominent Republicans that met with Trump’s advisers in February, is pushing for something quite close to the approach outlined in the D.C. report: levy a $40-per-ton tax on carbon emissions and return the money to the public via rebates, or what Halstead calls “carbon dividends.” He plans to solicit support from leading companies.Adele Morris, policy director for climate and energy economics at the Brookings Institution, says the increased interest among conservatives reflects, among other things, a desire to maintain American leadership in combating global warming as President Barack Obama’s climate regulations get ripped down. “I think some conservatives see an opportunity to shape a positive agenda for climate change in the Republican Party,” she says. They may also be concerned about “the risk to the party of continued obstruction and denial.”The most important business stories of the day.Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.But even if Republicans can be persuaded to endorse a carbon tax, will they be any more successful at getting the public to sign on than Democrats have been? Yoram Bauman, a Republican economist—and stand-up comedian—who organized last year’s carbon tax ballot measure in Washington state, says he’s heartened that such levies “are moving into the realm of polite conversation.” He thinks it’s only a matter of time before the political interests align in favor. “What’s the saying in politics?” he says. “Everything looks impossible until it’s not.”The bottom line: Trump has pronounced himself against a carbon tax, but more conservatives are warming to the concept.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-26/anthem-earnings-beat-estimates-as-enrollment-rates-rise
Anthem Threatens Higher ACA Rates If Funds for Poor StopAnthem Inc. threatened to raise rates for its Obamacare plans next year if the U.S. government stops funding subsidies for lower-income customers, putting pressure on the administration and Republicans to support a key piece of the health law.Chief Executive Officer Joseph Swedish said on a conference call Wednesday that the insurer could raise its rates by 20 percent if the subsidies aren’t paid to insurers. The subsidies are currently the subject of a political debate in Washington and it’s unclear whether President Donald Trump’s administration will continue to fund them.The insurer is also considering exiting some Affordable Care Act markets altogether, as many of its rivals have already done. Swedish said Anthem is “assessing our market footprint in 2018.”“We expect to provide additional clarity on our 2018 market footprint during our second-quarter earnings call, if not sooner,” he said.Health insurers are expecting about $7 billion in funds, known as cost-sharing reduction subsidies or CSRs, to help low-income people afford out-of-pocket costs under Obamacare. The funds are threatened by a lawsuit that GOP House members filed during the Obama administration.Your cheat sheet on life, in one weekly email.Get our weekly Game Plan newsletter.Lawmakers could promise insurers that they will continue the payments while the lawsuit is ongoing by including them in congressional spending legislation. The spending bill must be passed by Friday but Republican leadership has indicated it may not. The negotiations on the measure have faltered over Democrats’ demand that the subsidies be funded by Congress to avoid blowing up the Obamacare market if the court rules against the payments.House Speaker Paul Ryan said Wednesday that “obviously” funds for the cost-sharing subsidies won’t be included in the spending bill, because those payments are currently shouldered by the executive branch.Swedish said the company needs to know about the payments by June to determine its rates or whether it will exit certain markets next year.Earnings BeatThe comments came during Anthem’s first-quarter earnings results Wednesday, in which the insurer beat analyst expectations due to a boost in customer numbers and increased premium revenue. Its shares rose 4 percent to $179.42 at 2:04 p.m. in New York.The insurer saw growth in its group local, individual and national plans, according to a statement. Its biggest increases were in plans it manages for Medicaid, the U.S. health program for the poor, which grew by 507,000 members.The company is one of the few big insurers that has remained in the Affordable Care Act marketplaces that its rivals, including UnitedHealth Group Inc., have fled because of losses. Anthem sells coverage under the Blue Cross and Blue Shield brand in 14 states.Margins in the ACA marketplaces “seem to have improved though it is early in the year,” Ana Gupte, an analyst with Leerink Partners, wrote in a note Wednesday.Growing EnrollmentAnthem said it expects medical enrollment to grow by 300,000 to 500,000 for the full year, and raised its its guidance for adjusted earnings to at least $11.60 a share. The company had earlier forecast 2017 adjusted earnings of at least $11.50.“We see the guidance raise as conservative and expect there could be potential for continued increases through the remainder of the year,” Gupte said.Membership in its plans rose by about 1 million, or 2.6 percent over the year to March 31.  Revenue from premiums rose 10.3 percent from the same period a year earlier, Anthem said. Quarterly earnings excluding some items were $4.68 a share, beating analysts’ average estimate of $4.20 a share.Health insurers have chafed under the ACA, also known as Obamacare, as many of its enrollees have had higher-than-expected medical bills. Analysts have speculated that Anthem will exit at least some Obamacare markets, and Swedish discussed the Republican replacement plan for the Affordable Care Act when he talked with President Donald Trump in March.Also on the call, Anthem said it hasn’t ruled out using pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts Holding Co. after their contract expires, sending Express Scripts’ shares up 2.7 percent. The two companies have been embroiled in a legal dispute, and Express Scripts had plunged earlier this week after saying it expected Anthem, its biggest client, wouldn’t renew their contract.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-01/gop-paid-white-house-s-priebus-almost-500-000-filing-show
GOP Paid White House's Priebus Almost $500,000, Filing ShowsWhite House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus received almost $500,000 from the Republican National Committee in 2016 as he led the party to wins at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, according to a financial disclosure form released Friday.Priebus served as chairman of the RNC from 2011 until joining the Trump administration in January. He was paid a base salary of $225,000 in 2016 plus two bonuses totaling $175,000. The party also spent just over $57,000 on rent for a Washington-area home. At the beginning of 2017, the committee paid him an additional $33,000.Appointed by President Donald Trump shortly after the election last year, Priebus has attempted to draw on his long-standing relationships with Republicans in Congress to help shape and shepherd Trump’s agenda.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.A fixture in Wisconsin politics for most of his adult life, Priebus worked as a litigator at Milwaukee law firm Michael Best & Friedrich LLP, where he became partner in 2006. He went on leave from the firm when he became party chairman and more formally severed ties at the end of 2016, when he received a $450,000 equity buyout. He also was paid a $50,000 bonus by the firm and had $96,408 from his capital account returned to him.Priebus also reported assets totaling at least $350,000 in an American Funds mutual fund and two bank accounts.
https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-04-11/defense-stock-rally-teeters-as-trump-s-plans-encounter-reality
Defense Stock Rally Runs Out of SteamThese should be lush times for those who profit from conflict. Global tensions are rising while President Donald Trump promises the most spending on U.S. troops and military hardware since Ronald Reagan’s buildup of the 1980s.Instead, a post-election defense-stock rally is sputtering as concerns grow that dysfunction and division in the Republican-controlled government could thwart that plan. It’s another Trump trade at risk of being undone by congressional leaders ill-schooled in the art of compromise and by fiscal conservatives, who may insist on maintaining spending caps set under President Barack Obama.Lawmakers still haven’t approved a fiscal 2017 budget as a government shutdown looms this month. The easiest solution would be to extend for the full year a temporary measure known as a continuing resolution that holds funding at 2016 levels. Doing so would starve spending for new ships, bombers, missiles and helicopters built by companies like Lockheed Martin Corp., Boeing Co., General Dynamics Corp., Raytheon Co. and Northrop Grumman Corp.Analyst Douglas Harned offers a blunt assessment: During the next six months to a year, the news for defense investors “is more likely to be bad than good, as it becomes clear that the president and Congress will be unable to bring a budget together that significantly increases defense spending.”Best-Laid PlansThe S&P 500’s defense group has notched a 15 percent gain since Trump’s Nov. 8 victory, outpacing the broader market. But half that run-up came in the first week after the election, when big Pentagon spending increases seemed like a slam dunk. The group has been a middling performer on the broader index, which is led by a 34 percent gain for casinos and gambling companies.“Irrational exuberance has waned after year-end 2016 euphoria,” Robert Stallard, a defense analyst with Vertical Research Partners, said in a report to clients Monday. “A combination of conservative guidance for this year and the Trump agenda hitting the reality of Congress appear to have flushed out some investors.”Companies that benefit from Trump administration policies that don’t rely on Congress have fared better. Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded an Obama administration order directing the Federal Bureau of Prisons to phase out its use of private lockups. Prison operators CoreCivic Inc. and Geo Group Inc. have risen 126 percent and 97 percent, respectively, since the election.Combat PayThe U.S. spends about $600 billion a year on its military, about as much as the next 14 nations combined. Trump would have to pull off a remarkable political feat for military spending to reach Reaganesque levels without increasing revenue, persuading conservatives to accede to higher deficits.Another, less palatable option: Geopolitical tensions would need to “escalate into an all-out war,” Harned, senior aerospace and defense analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Inc., wrote in a note to clients Monday. “We would not predict either of those events in the near term.”Doubts About LeadershipTrump, who ran as a blunt talker with an arsenal of simple-if-vague solutions, has been frequently stymied as he encounters the complexities of governance. Despite his promises to stanch the flow of companies to Mexico, relocations have resumed after a post-election pause. Last month, a plan pushed by Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan to end the Affordable Care Act fizzled without a floor vote after seven years of Republican promises.“It raises the question about how strong Speaker Ryan in fact is, or how capable he is of finding an appropriate middle ground,” said Howard Rubel, managing director with Jefferies LLC. “The health-care vote could be a precursor to other embarrassments to the Republican party if they aren’t careful.”Republicans are splintered ahead of the budget showdown. Members of Congress, now on a two-week recess, will have about four days to approve a catch-all omnibus spending bill covering the remainder of fiscal 2017 -- or extend a temporary measure due to expire on April 28 to keep government open. The Trump administration has requested a supplemental spending bill that includes $30 billion for defense and $3 billion for a border wall, at a price of significant non-defense cuts.Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day.Get our newsletter daily.A compromise defense-spending measure already approved by the House may carry funding for all the other government agencies. Most of the bill is already agreed on, according to Senator Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican and veteran member of the Appropriations Committee. Democrats, like Senators Jack Reed of Rhode Island and Dick Durbin of Illinois, the ranking member on the defense spending panel, indicated they would back it.The budget drama should be in full swing as defense company CEOs present first-quarter results -- and try to temper expectations, according to Ken Herbert, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity.“Considering the hype around defense spending under the Trump administration, we see some risk,” Herbert wrote in a report Monday. “The defense fundamentals will take a few quarters to catch up with expectations.”Military-service chiefs warned Congress last week of dire scenarios should lawmakers resort to another continuing resolution. They range from the Navy canceling deployment of ships, to the Air Force cutting non-war related aircraft refueling missions.Then there’s the prospect of adding to the wear-and-tear on equipment and weapons due to spending constraints and years of war. The average age of the U.S. Air Force aircraft fleet is 27 years, according to data compiled by Jefferies. That’s why analysts think defense stocks have good growth prospects -- eventually.“There’s not a question that we need to boost defense spending because we’re using up our material faster than we should,” Rubel said. “It’s appropriate to bump up the budget.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/15/rep-walden-co-author-gops-obamacare-replacement-latest-to-get-town-hall-treatment.html
Rep. Walden, co-author of GOP's ObamaCare replacement, latest to get town hall treatmentIn the auditorium of his old middle school just blocks from where he still lives, the congressman who is a lead author of the stalled House Republican health care bill was treated like the villain in a class play.It didn't matter that Rep. Greg Walden was on a first-name basis with many of the roughly 800 attendees. Or that Democrats like Gov. Kate Brown call him congenial and bright. Or that Walden was just re-elected to a 10th House term with 72 percent of the vote in a safely Republican eastern Oregon district. Or that he is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Walden, 60, encountered the same angry buzz saw at town meetings last week that has greeted his Republican colleagues at similar sessions and prompted others to not even bother holding them. President Donald Trump and his party's policies on health care, immigration, the environment, the arts and Syria have whipped up Democratic voters and liberal organizers while dividing Republicans as well, and they're letting GOP lawmakers know it."Connie, I tried to answer you," Walden, standing alone on stage in a blue blazer and plaid shirt, pleaded to Connie Burton over resounding boos. Her children played with Walden's when they were little, but the 63-year-old Burton was now demanding that the lawmaker oppose Trump's voiding of rules blocking harmful emissions."Yes or no," the audience yelled when Walden answered indirectly.Chosen to ask a question, one man in the balcony said, "You seem a like a pro-war politician. Have you encouraged your son to join the Marines?" A woman said, "We are absolutely disgusted that you led a committee to take away" peoples' health care, before loud cheers drowned her out."I care about health care. I know you don't think that," an exasperated Walden said at one point.Walden's reception was far friendlier in more GOP-leaning Prineville, set among grazing land over 100 miles to the south. There were far fewer interruptions, though from the bleachers of the Crook County High School gym, 72-year-old Republican Steve Johnson yelled that Walden should "quit dancing around down there" and produce results in Congress.But in Hood River, which despite its name is on the banks of the majestic Columbia River, and in Bend, the district's liberal hub at the foot of the Cascades, huge crowds pressed Walden in two-hour encounters heavy on boisterous interruptions and catcalls."People are fired up, and I know that and I respect that," Walden said in an interview. He said that as the sole Republican in Oregon's congressional delegation, "I am the place they can come and vent."Congress is on a two-week recess that comes with Trump and the GOP health care bill faring dismally in polls, and Walden was often defensive about both. Republicans hope to resuscitate the health care measure and tackle budget, tax and infrastructure legislation, but public reaction — measured partly by town halls like these — will help determine their success.The Republican measure would largely repeal former President Barack Obama's health care overhaul, including its tax penalties on people who don't buy coverage and expansion of Medicaid, which provides coverage for the poor. Walden stressed parts of that statute he would keep: its ban on lifetime coverage limits and a requirement that insurers cover even the most ill, costly consumers."We're going to protect people like you," he told Kim Schmith, 50, of Madras, who described her costly battle against breast cancer and said, "I am no longer uninsurable, and I want be insured."Walden said Republicans want to improve competition at a time when insurers are fleeing many insurance markets. He said as the GOP tries reviving its bill, he believes its tax credits will be increased for poor people. Those proposed subsidies have drawn opposition from all sides as too skimpy for low earners.Walden's role as a helmsman of the GOP drive to repeal Obama's law puts him in an odd political situation back home.As a state legislator in the 1990s, he promoted health care innovations such as rating the cost and effectiveness of medical procedures that are credited with saving Oregon huge sums of money. Now in Congress, he represents a Democratic-run state that's embraced Obama's overhaul and adopted its expansion of Medicaid."The Republican health care proposal is a disservice to Oregonians and their access to health care," Brown, the governor, said in an interview. A one-time colleague of Walden in the Legislature, she said the GOP bill runs "counter to Oregon values." She predicted "political consequences" for Republicans.Walden won all 20 of his district's counties last November and did better than Trump in all but one, so he may have little reason to worry. But clearly, there's a big constituency for Obama's law in Oregon.Nearly one-fourth of Oregon's 4 million residents are on Medicaid, well above the national 20 percent average. That includes about 380,000 in the expanded Medicaid program Obama created to cover people earning modestly above the federal poverty level, an enlargement the GOP bill would phase out.Walden notes that Oregon faces an $882 million Medicaid shortfall this year, partly because federal payments under Obama's statute are declining.About 130,000 other Oregonians have bought policies on the online insurance exchange Obama established, with most getting federal subsidies. Overall, state figures show the proportion of uninsured Oregonians dropped from 17 percent before the law's full 2014 implementation to 5 percent now.Walden's district, which encompasses over two-thirds of Oregon and is larger than 23 states, has taken full advantage of the law. With much of the district poorer than Oregon's coastal region, 240,000 of its residents receive Medicaid. In six of its 20 counties, more than 3 in 10 are beneficiaries.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/18/georgia-race-gop-hits-ossoff-for-living-outside-district-in-final-stretch.html
Georgia race: GOP hits Ossoff for living outside district, in final stretchRepublicans, in the closing hours of Tuesday’s hard-fought Georgia congressional race, are hitting the Democratic frontrunner for living outside the district and portraying him as a conservatives' nightmare who would increase taxes and take away guns.The race has turned into a national contest, with top candidate Jon Ossoff attracting more than $8 million in largely outside donations. Liberals are pinning their hopes on Ossoff to win the conservative-leaning House seat and deliver a rebuke to President Trump.“Liberals across America saw this as their great hope,” former GOP House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who once held that congressional seat, told Fox News' "America's Newsroom." “They’re terrified Donald Trump means the end of their world. They’re legitimately mobilized because Donald Trump does mean the end of their world.”WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW: GEORGIA SPECIAL ELECTIONThe 30-year-old Ossoff, a filmmaker and former congressional aide, is the leading candidate in a crowded field. But Republicans hope to keep him from garnering a majority on Tuesday to force a June 20 runoff that they think they could more easily win.Trump has taken an active role in the race -- a sign of how much Republicans want to keep the seat and blunt any momentum Democrats might get toward next year's midterms.“Democrat Jon Ossoff would be a disaster in Congress. VERY weak on crime and illegal immigration, bad for jobs and wants higher taxes. Say NO,” the president said Tuesday on Twitter.Republicans must get out today and VOTE in Georgia 6. Force runoff and easy win! Dem Ossoff will raise your taxes-very bad on crime & 2nd A.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2017“Republicans must get out today and VOTE in Georgia 6. Force runoff and easy win! Dem Ossoff will raise your taxes-very bad on crime & 2nd A,” Trump added minutes later.He also recorded a get-out-the-vote call in which he says, "Liberal Democrats from outside of Georgia are spending millions and millions of dollars trying to take your Republican congressional seat away from you. Don’t let them do it. ... I need you to get out to the polls."In a late twist to the race, Republicans are also hitting Ossoff over technically not living in the district."The surprising early leader in the special election to replace Tom Price in Congress doesn't live in the district," the Republican National Committee said in an email blast Monday evening to reporters.The National Republican Congressional Committee on Tuesday morning said Ossoff found the time to be on TV shows “in lieu of voting for himself … because -- well -- he doesn’t live in the district.”Ossoff explained to CNN that he grew up in the district but lives about 10 minutes away with his girlfriend of 12 years.“I am a mile and a half down the street to support Alicia while she finishes medical school,” he said. “It’s something I’ve been very transparent about.”The winner of the special election keeps the seat for just 18 months, until next year’s midterm elections.Republicans have held the House seat for nearly four decades. The last member in the seat was Tom Price, now Health and Human Services secretary, who won reelection in 2016 with roughly 60 percent of the vote.However, Trump narrowly defeated Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in that district -- signaling to Democrats that an upset could be within reach.The race Tuesday features 18 candidates -- 11 Republicans, five Democrats and two independents.To outright take the so-called “jungle primary,” the winner must get more than 50 percent of the vote or face the second-place finisher in a runoff.Ossoff is a former staffer to Rep. Hank Johnson and intern for civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis, Georgia Democrats who have backed his candidacy.The top Republican candidates in the race include former Secretary of State Karen Handel; Bob Gray, a technology executive; and former state Sens. Dan Moody and Judson Hill.Gingrich, a Fox News contributor, also predicted Republicans would after Tuesday coalesce around a single candidate and defeat Ossoff in June, with perhaps Trump campaigning in Georgia.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/18/federal-judge-blocks-bid-to-bring-back-pig-painting-on-capitol-hill.html
Federal judge blocks bid to bring back 'pig painting' on Capitol HillA federal judge has blocked efforts to bring back to U.S. Capitol grounds a controversial painting that depicts a police officer as a pig.David Pulphus, a student artist from Missouri, and Rep. William Clay, his Democratic congressional representative, had sued Architect of the Capitol Stephen Ayers for removing the painting in January amid a showdown with law enforcement groups and Republican lawmakers who opposed the “art.”U.S. District Judge John D. Bates said in his decision that the government has used its editorial discretion in the selection and presentation of the piece.As a result, it's engaging in "government speech" and the plaintiffs have no First Amendment right to display the painting.Leah J. Tulin, a lawyer representing Pulphus and Clay, says they are likely to appeal.The painting appeared to show a pig in a police uniform aiming a gun at a black wolf holding a sign that says, “STOP KILL.”Above the scene, two birds -- one black, one white -- fight, and beside them, a black protester holding a scale of justice is crucified.Law enforcement groups had strongly objected to the painting’s display on the Capitol complex grounds, with one group calling it “reprehensible, repugnant and repulsive.”The art work was part of an annual contest sponsored by Clay, D-Mo., and is said to be a symbolic representation of injustice, inequality and the unrest in Ferguson following the shooting of an unarmed black man by a white police officer in 2014.The painting had hung in a tunnel leading to the Capitol for more than seven months before it became a lightning rod of controversy.Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., took the painting down and returned it to Clay’s office last year. Hunter argued that it was inappropriate. Clay put it back up.Republicans eventually issued a formal complaint that led to the architect of the Capitol removing it in January.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/19/chaffetz-announces-will-not-seek-re-election.html
Chaffetz announces he will not seek re-electionRep. Jason Chaffetz, the outspoken Utah Republican and influential chairman of the House oversight committee, announced Wednesday he will not seek re-election in 2018.The conservative lawmaker, who’s been in Congress since 2009, confirmed the decision on Facebook.“After long consultation with my family and prayerful consideration, I have decided I will not be a candidate for any office in 2018,” he wrote.Chaffetz, a longtime fixture in Utah politics, has hinted before at potentially running for governor in 2020, and his announcement could be the first step toward that goal. He also has faced an early Democratic challenge for the House seat.In an exclusive interview on "Your World With Neil Cavuto," Chaffetz said he may run for office again in the future, but for now he's going into the private sector."I want to go back to the private sector," he said. "I want to reintroduce myself to my family."He also reiterated while he enjoyed his work in Congress on "this issues," his family was the motivation in his decision."My family is more important and I love them more than I love being a member of Congress or the Senate," Chaffetz said.Chaffetz also discussed the possibility of an open U.S. Senate seat in Utah in the event that Sen. Sen. Orrin Hatch doesn't run for an eighth term."Mitt Romney, there couldn't be anybody better, I don't know if he would do it," he told Fox News' Neil Cavuto, adding "If I wanted to run I'd be very competitive.""I preach you want to serve, get in, get out, and that's what I'm doing," he said.Chaffetz arrived in Congress nearly a decade ago under rather testy circumstances, defeating GOP Rep. Chris Cannon in a 2008 primary runoff. Cannon refused to meet with Chaffetz after that.Chaffetz was more recently a leading figure in Congress’ investigations into 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email and server as secretary of state. He hounded the Secret Service over multiple security incidents and scandals during the Obama administration; amid those tensions, the agency even apologized to him after officials wrongly accessed personal information about him. He was a frequent critic of government waste, and showed no hesitation about lambasting alleged culprits who appeared before his committee.In his role this year, he's also had to navigate how to address ethical complaints about the current Trump administration. And he faced an emerging challenge in 2018 from Democrat Dr. Kathryn Allen, who has been on a fundraising spree after seizing on controversial comments he made suggesting low-income people should prioritize health care over buying iPhones.Like many of his colleagues, Chaffetz recently encountered a raucous town hall in his home state. Chaffetz said he's announcing his decision now "to give prospective candidates time to lay the groundwork for a successful run."Fox News' Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/15/with-syria-and-shutdown-on-table-expect-more-all-nighters-in-congress.html
With Syria and shutdown on the table, expect more all-nighters in CongressI’m exhausted. Mentally and physically spent.I like to think I have a pretty good motor when it comes to reporting on Capitol Hill. I can fully function on just a couple of hours of sleep a night. I’m 48 years old and make it a point to exercise every day. I have run a mile in as little as 6 minutes and 3 seconds in the past several months.But I’m worn out.Not from exercise. But from Congress.In November, it was clear 2017 could be the most tumultuous year on Capitol Hill since 1995. That’s when Republicans seized control of the House for the first time in 40 years and then-House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., rolled out an aggressive legislative agenda to do things differently in Washington. Gingrich pushed the House through his 10-point “Contract with America,” repeatedly challenging President Bill Clinton.As the late Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., said at the time, it wasn’t the first 100 days which were killing members. It was the “first 100 nights.”There’s truth to that this time around.Since the beginning of the year, the Senate has stayed in session around the clock four times. That included a 57 hour and 5 minute stretch in February as Democrats required the body burn off time on various Cabinet nominations.Just last week, the Senate remained in session for a day-and-a-half as Sen. Jeff Merkley, D0-Oregon, commandeered the floor for 15 hours and 28 minutes to contest the nomination of now confirmed Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch.The GOP-majority Senate twice this year met at 6:30 a.m. Once was for a vote to halt debate on the nomination of now Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.Both parties are to blame for the hectic schedule. Notably, Democrats deployed all parliamentary options available on many of President Trump’s Cabinet nominations. That forced the Senate to consume inordinate chunks of time afforded the minority party under the rules.The Senate voted to confirm Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price just after 2 a.m. ET one morning, then held an additional procedural vote on the nomination of Steve Mnuchin to become Treasury secretary.The wild pace started even before the 115th Congress convened on January 3.On the night of January 2, House Republicans approved a rules change to de-fang the quasi-governmental “Office of Congressional Ethics.”By morning, House Republicans realized they had a public relations disaster on their hands worthy of United Airlines. The body was just hours away from taking one of the first votes of the Congress to undercut an ethics watchdog.Ten minutes before the new Congress gaveled to order, leader of the GOP-controlled House convened an emergency conference meeting to abandon the effort to deaden the ethic’s office.Inauguration Day is always a crazy one in Washington. Many who toil on Capitol Hill arrive well before dawn for work. But by dark on this Inauguration Day, the Senate was in the middle of roll call votes to confirm Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Defense Secretary James Mattis. A brouhaha erupted over Democrats demanding debate on the nomination of CIA Director Mike Pompeo.Vice President Pence visits the Capitol continuously to meet with Republicans -- mostly about trying to solve the puzzle of repealing and replacing ObamaCare. Many of Pence’s meetings come at night. Two of them last week didn’t start until after 8:30 p.m. ET.Pence had to vote to break a tie to confirm DeVos, marking the first time that a vice president did such to confirm a Cabinet secretary. Two weeks ago, Pence broke two ties in one day on an abortion-related measure. No vice president had broken two ties in a single day since Alben Barkley on Oct. 4, 1949.So, three tie-breaking votes for Pence in less than three months in office. Prior to the DeVos vote, Vice President Dick Cheney broke the last Senate tie, on March 13, 2008, on a budget package. Vice President Joe Biden never cast a ballot to break a tie.Congressional Republicans don’t have a lot to show for their efforts so far this year. Perhaps the only major achievement they scored was the Gorsuch confirmation.Still, Democrats filibustered the nomination -- a first for a Supreme Court nominee. In turn, Senate Republicans were forced to deploy the nuclear option, a striking change in Senate precedent to lower the threshold to break a filibuster on a high court nominees.Offstage, there’s political wrestling over health care. Republicans in late March yanked a plan off the floor engineered by House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.They first pushed back the vote by a day, eliciting an evening convocation at the Capitol (of course) between House Republicans and White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, top White House adviser Steve Bannon and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney.The evening huddle with House Republicans naturally produced a 7 a.m. meeting the next day of the House Rules Committee to prepare the health care legislation for the floor. By mid-afternoon, the legislation was toast and the effort was all for naught.Congress last week abandoned Washington for an 18-day recess. But there was chatter the House could reconvene on an emergency notice if they thought they were close on a health care deal. A senior House GOP leadership source told Fox before the break that wouldn’t happen until the end of the recess -- and only if they were confident they had the votes.Then House Republicans announced they would hold a conference call next Saturday with rank-and-file members. Ryan left Washington for a bipartisan trip to Europe to meet with NATO allies, though it was said the speaker was prepared to return if they had a deal.Trump long ago said he was dropping health care and turning to tax reform. But, that’s not the case now.“I think we're doing very well on health care,” Trump said in an interview with Fox Business. “It's been very much misreported that we failed with health care. We haven't failed. We're negotiating, and we continue to negotiate. And we will save perhaps $900 billion.”The whiplash …Of course, it would only be par for the course if Congress cuts short the recess. Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution enables presidents to summon Congress back to session for “extraordinary” circumstances.No president has used that authority since Truman in 1948. Among the issues then? Debate on a national health care system.Obviously that didn’t go over too well …Among the other bizarre things that unfolded on Capitol Hill this year? A routine car chase that devolved into an incident in which U.S. Capitol Police shot at the suspect to stop as she sped past the Rayburn House Office Building.There was the contretemps over Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., during the debate on whether then-Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., should become attorney general. Warren quoted the words of Coretta Scott King during her speech opposing Sessions. Warren read from a document that was inserted into the Congressional Record in the 1980s.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., and Sen. Steve Daines, R-Montana, found Warren’s words to be “a violation of Rule XIX of the Standing Rules of the Senate to impute another senator, or senator’s conduct or motive unbecoming a senator.”The Senate then voted to mute Warren for the rest of the debate on Sessions’ nomination. The Senate hadn’t stifled a senator since it sanctioned Sen. William Benton, D-Conn., for his language in the chamber on February 1, 1951.We haven’t even addressed the Russia intelligence probe. That’s to say nothing of the controversial move by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., to clandestinely head to the White House to view certain classified materials regarding Trump.Nunes stepped aside from the Russia probe on the last day of the session. GOP Reps. Michael Conaway, Texas; Tom Rooney, Florida, and Trey Gowdy, South Carolina, will now lead the investigation. Of course that all unfolded the same day as the nuclear option for Gorsuch. But by dinner time, neither Nunes nor the nuclear option was much news.That’s because Trump ordered airstrikes against Syria.Now there’s a debate as to whether Congress should approve an authorization for U.S. military action in Syria. There’s bipartisan support for such a resolution in both chambers. Expect the Syria issue to be front and center when Congress returns to session the week after next. That is, after the House continues work on health care. And then, another sprint through the week to try to avoid a government shutdown by April 28.That debate usually goes swimmingly…No wonder everyone’s exhausted.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/15/democrats-post-election-playbook-stay-big-in-california.html
Democrats’ post-election playbook: Stay big in CaliforniaAfter painful November 2016 losses, Washington Democrats still appear committed to devoting resources to strongholds like California, instead of responding to party pleas to put time and money into Middle America to reconnect with disaffected voters.The contrast came into full view when the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee earlier this month started moving senior staffers to deep-blue California, then provided essentially no help to its candidate in the Kansas special election, who on Tuesday nearly pulled off a huge upset.Washington Democrats hailed candidate James Thompson’s narrow loss as a moral victory, considering Republicans have held the seat since 1995.But Thompson made clear that the DCCC and the Democrat National Committee could have done more, considering Washington Republicans including President Trump, Vice President Pence and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz invested time and money to save the seat.“The DCCC and the DNC need to be doing a 50-state strategy,” said Thompson, after coming within 6 percentage points of winning Kansas GOP Rep. Mike Pompeo’s open House seat. (Pompeo won reelection there last year with roughly 60 percent of the vote before becoming the CIA director in January.)GOPS WIN IN CLOSE SPECIAL ELECTION IN KANSASThompson also pointed out that his campaign was largely financed by individual, small-dollar donations, saying 99 percent of the money came through average-$20 contributions.The state Democrat party disputes a report that it gave Thompson just $3,000 late in the race but has failed to provide documentation showing the group in fact backed the first-time candidate’s campaign from the start.The DNC contributed no last-minute money to counter the GOP infusion, with newly-installed Chairmen Tom Perez telling The Washington Post: “There are thousands of elections every year, though. Can we invest in all of them? That would require a major increase in funds.”DNC Communications Director Xochtil Hinojosa told Fox News on Wednesday that the outcome of the Kansas race -- in a district Trump won in November by 27 percentage points -- proves voters’ “resounding frustration” with the president’s agenda and that Washington Democrats are “committed to organizing in every zip code.”Meanwhile, the DCCC, which declined to comment for this story, is already sending staffers to Southern California to establish a base camp for 2018 House races in the state and in Nevada, Oregon and Washington.“Moving out West is one of the improvements that we’re making at the DCCC in order to maximize gains in the midterms,” says group Chairman Rep. Ben Ray Luján.The New Mexico congressman also vowed that he and fellow Democrats are “on offense across the map -- including in districts that have not seen a serious challenge in a long time.”To be sure, the DCCC has sent dozens of paid staffers and hundreds of volunteers to Georgia for the special election Tuesday for the open seat of former GOP Rep. Tom Price, in a district Trump barely defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton. (Democratic candidate Jon Ossoff has raised more than $8 million in that race.)But whether the plan is enough to satisfy rank-and-file Democrats after November 2016 remains to be seen.Before last year, Republicans had already controlled both chambers of Congress as well as the majority of state houses and governors’ offices.And losses in Democratic strongholds like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Florida in 2016 that led to Trump’s upset victory over Clinton -- and nixed the party’s chances to retake the Senate -- only reinforced the notion that the Midwestern, blue collar vote has been neglected.“We have to talk to those people who take a shower after work, not those who just take a shower before work,” Ohio Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan said after the losses and amid his subsequent, failed effort to replace California Democratic Rep. Nancy Pelosi as House minority leader.He also joined fellow party members in saying Democratic leaders had become too focus on liberal bastions like California, New York and neighbor East Coast states.Despite Democrats last year winning a handful of House seats, Republicans will still have a daunting, roughly 44-seat majority going into the midterms and a 52-48 seat edge in the Senate.In California, Democrats are targeting seven incumbent House Republicans -- including high-profile Reps. Dana Rohrabacher and Darrell Issa and three others in Southern California.Ben Tulchin, a San Francisco-based Democratic pollster and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ pollster in the 2016 Democratic primaries -- supports the party’s California strategy.He says such grassroots efforts in places like Los Angeles and Orange counties make sense because voter-registration drives can reach a large number of unregistered Latinos, Asian-Americans and others who frequently vote Democrat.“There’s an untapped pool of Democratic voters that just doesn’t exist in place like Iowa,” he said.Tulchin also argued that reaching voters by TV in the greater-Los Angeles market is too expensive and that voters in largely-conservative Orange County, particularly along the coast, are becoming more socially liberal or at least more moderate.“They’re almost all pro-environment,” Tulchin said.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/oklahoma-rep-tells-taxpayers-its-bullcrap-to-claim-pay-his-salary.html
Oklahoma rep tells taxpayers it's 'bullcrap' to claim they pay his salaryAn Oklahoma congressman told constituents at a feisty town hall this week it was “bullcrap” to claim they funded his congressional salary.At the forum in Jay, Okla., on Tuesday, Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., responded to a question from an audience member, who claimed constituents pay for him to work in Congress. Mullin’s response was recorded, and the video has gone viral on social media platforms.“You say you pay for me to do this. Bullcrap. I pay for myself. I paid enough taxes before I got there and continue to through my company to pay my own salary. This is a service. No one here pays me to go,” the 39-year-old Republican said.Several audience members shouted back at the congressman, to which he responded, “I’m just saying this is a service for me, not a career, and I thank God this is not how I make my living.”A spokesperson for Mullin told the Tulsa World later that the congressman was referring to taxes he had paid as a private citizen and a business owner – Mullin owns several plumbing companies.“The congressman is referencing the federal taxes that he and his businesses have paid to the government over the years, prior to being in office,” Mullin’s press secretary, Amy Lawrence, said. “Like all business owners, Congressman Mullin pays his taxes, which contribute to congressional salaries.”Mullin is in his third term and has not yet said whether he will seek a fourth.“The congressman reiterates in the video that his work as a representative of the Second District of Oklahoma is a service,” Lawrence said, according to the Tulsa World. “His aspiration is to be a career legislator and not a career politician. He is not, nor does he ever aspire to be, a career politician. His priority will always be to serve his constituents to the best of his ability.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/paul-ryan-s-fire-drill-bid-to-revive-obamacare-repeal-just-for-show.html
Paul Ryan’s fire drill: Bid to revive ObamaCare repeal just for show?House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., ripped a foundering bill to repeal and replace ObamaCare off the floor late last month. Soon after, President Trump declared the effort dead. The president said it was now time to advance to tax reform.Until it wasn’t.“I really want to do it first,” Trump said of health care reform during an interview this week with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network. “We are going to have a phenomenal tax reform. But I have to do health care first.”Vice President Pence raced to the Capitol twice last week for lengthy, late-night conclaves with rank-and-file GOP House members. Trump summoned Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., to the White House last Wednesday night for a meeting which sources described as “tense.”At 12:56 a.m. Thursday, a message hit the mobile devices of reporters around Washington from a senior House Republican leadership aide. The missive said “progress was made” on a plan to create a fund-sharing, “risk pool” arrangement engineered by Reps. Gary Palmer, R-Ala., and Dave Schweikert, R-Ariz. The aide said the Rules Committee – regarded as the gateway for legislation to hit the House floor – would hold a meeting Thursday to latch the Palmer-Schweikert plan to the stunted health care bill.You generally don’t go to the Rules Committee unless you intend to put a bill on the floor.Was the Palmer-Schweikert plan the magic bullet to cajole just enough Republicans to vote yes and lug the package across the finish line?Ryan then moved up the time of his weekly press conference by an hour and 45 minutes. Were they putting the rejiggered bill on the floor? Ryan assumed the stage in the House Radio/TV Gallery, flanked by a couple dozen of the most ardent backers of the legislation.“This gets us closer,” said Ryan. “We have plenty of cushion. We are well within our timeline.”Less than an hour later, House members fled the Capitol for a two-and-a-half week recess. No vote on health care. GOPers circulated an unfinished, “bootleg” version of the updated bill text by mid-morning. The Rules Committee convened in the afternoon, long after lawmakers departed.The exercise was just a fire drill. Sturm und drang from the House leadership to satisfy a jittery administration and present the illusion they were getting somewhere on health care reform before the break. They worried the public could perceive otherwise without the theatrical scramble.“This was an effort to save Reince Priebus’s job,” grumbled one House Republican committee chairman of the White House chief of staff. “I don’t care about Reince Priebus.”“It just lets us say that we did something,” groaned another Republican of the parliamentary calisthenics.So Trump is now, supposedly, hoping to carve a deal with whomever will listen.“Ocare is dead. Good things will happen, however, either with Republicans or Dems” the president tweeted.It wasn’t that long ago that Trump lit into the Freedom Caucus for the health care bill collapse. The president asserted that if those members don’t come around, they’ll “hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don’t get on the team, and fast.” Otherwise, Trump intimated he’d “fight” the Freedom Caucus.“If @RepMarkMeadows, @Jim_Jordan and @Raul_Labrador would get on board we would have both great healthcare and massive tax cuts & reform,” the president said in one tweet.But that wasn’t all.“Where are @RepMarkMeadows, @Jim_Jordan and @Raul_Labrador? #RepealANDReplace #Obamacare,” Trump tweeted.The White House’s director of social media also tore into one conservative on Twitter: Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich.“@realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability. #TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary,” tweeted Dan Scavino.Threatening primary challenges for members of his own party is rare turf for a president. Some of these same conservatives were dubious about Trump’s candidacy last year. They only aligned with the ticket once the president tapped Pence as his running mate. Many Freedom Caucus members outperformed the president in their districts at the polls last fall.Some of these lawmakers aren’t worried.“I don’t deal with bullies,” said Amash. “I’m not in the fifth grade.”The future of health care reform, and perhaps a panoply of other issues, swings in the balance. For members of the House, it’s a two-year term. For Trump, it’s a four-year term. So perhaps Trump doesn’t have the “right” Republicans in Congress to advance his agenda now.There’s a reason why former House Speaker John Boehner often relied on a blend of Democrats and Republicans to advance major legislation like the debt ceiling and government funding. But something happened last August which infuriates the Freedom Caucus – and could give the Trump administration a potential path to move some of its legislative priorities.Former Rep. Tim Huelskamp, R-Kan., lost his primary last summer to current Rep. Roger Marshall, R-Kan. A Freedom Caucus member, Huelskamp long-feuded with Boehner and Republican leaders. Boehner retaliated by bouncing Huelskamp from the House Agriculture Committee. Freedom Caucus members claimed House GOP leaders orchestrated Marshall’s victory last summer. The GOP brass denies the charge.What happened to Huelskamp is what Trump, Scavino and others suggested could happen to intransigent members of the Freedom Caucus. Most congressional Republicans fear primary challenges from their right flank. In this case, some GOPers and Trump could back a Republican to the left of those Freedom Caucus members. A more “mainstream” Republican may be willing to agree with Ryan and the Trump administration. It’s unclear if the White House might deploy such a political strategy.“We’re going to have great health care,” forecast Trump during his interview with FBN.But it all could hinge on the right mixture of congressional Republicans to get there.Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/gop-rep-calls-for-spicers-resignation-after-hitler-comments.html
GOP rep calls for Spicer's resignation after Hitler commentsA Republican congressman on Wednesday called for the resignation of the White House press secretary after comparing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to Adolph Hitler during his daily breifing.Rep. Mike Coffman, R-Colo., made the comments during a town hall meeting in Colorado. He said Sean Spicer made a terible mistake."He needs to go," he said in Aurora. "I just don't think he's serving the president well."Spicer was widely criticized for saying Hitler "didn't even sink to using chemical weapons."“We didn’t use chemical weapons in World War II," he said. "You know, you had someone as despicable as Hitler who didn’t even sink to using chemical weapons. So you have to, if you are Russia, ask yourself: Is this a country and a regime that you want to align yourself with?"Spicer apologized for the remarks, telling Fox News “I — especially during this week [Passover] — regret using that term and apologize and hope that we can focus on the president's decisive action that he took to make sure that we deal with the situation in Syria."House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., also called for Spicer’s resignation.“Sean Spicer must be fired, and the President must immediately disavow his spokesman’s statements," Pelosi said in a statement. "Either he is speaking for the President, or the President should have known better than to hire him."Coffman made his comments during a contentious town hall Wednesday. He received applause when he made the Spicer comments, but was booed and jeered when he tried to explain what Spicer was trying to say.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/congress-expands-unmasking-probe-amid-questions-over-rice-role.html
Congress expands 'unmasking' probe amid questions over Rice roleThe House and Senate intelligence committees are expanding their investigation into the so-called “unmasking” controversy, Fox News has learned, to examine whether other candidates or lawmakers beyond President Trump’s associates were affected.Until now, the investigation focused on how the identities and communications of Trump transition members were collected by U.S. intelligence agencies and then revealed to, and disseminated among, high-ranking members of the Obama administration.House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., now plans to audit files from the National Security Agency and White House to determine whether identities and conversations of presidential candidates -- or members of Congress -- also were swept up during NSA surveillance of foreign leaders. He also plans to review whether Obama’s National Security Council and White House counsel collected and distributed the intelligence for reasons unrelated to foreign intelligence.“We will be performing an accounting of all unmasking for political purposes focused on the previous White House administration,” a member of the committee told Fox News. “This is now a full-blown investigation.”Staffers on the Senate committee told Fox News they also have expanded their investigation into whether presidential candidates were unmasked and information was misused -- and what role former National Security Adviser Susan Rice, among others, played following reports that she requested Trump-affiliated names be unmasked.For a private U.S. citizen to be “unmasked,” or named, in an intelligence report is extremely rare and typically only done if it has some foreign intelligence value. Typically, the American is a suspect in a crime, is in danger or has to be named to explain the context of the report.The intelligence reports that Rice and others in the administration reportedly assembled are similar to what a private investigator might piece together, congressional and U.S. intelligence sources said. In some cases, rather than documenting foreign intelligence, the files included salacious personal information that, if released, could be embarrassing or harmful to the person’s reputation, U.S. intelligence and House Intelligence Committee sources said.These reports were then disseminated to about 20 to 30 people who had classified clearance in the Obama administration hierarchy, these sources said.Trump, members of his family, and members of his campaign and transition teams, were likely subjects of “incidental electronic surveillance” by U.S. intelligence agencies, Fox News reported.Sources told Fox News that names were then sent to all those at the National Security Council, some at the Defense Department, then-Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and then-CIA Director John Brennan -- as well as Rice and her former deputy Ben Rhodes, even though the names were supposed to be reported only to the initial requester.If the names were unmasked in intelligence reports and then leaked to the media for political reasons, it could constitute criminal behavior.Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Trump’s initial national security adviser, is one known example of a Trump campaign official whose name was unmasked from an intelligence report and leaked to the press. While Rice hasn’t said whether she unmasked Flynn, the leak of his conversation with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak where he discussed U.S. sanctions led Flynn to resign three weeks into his term.Nunes first announced on March 22 that he’d viewed intelligence reports that contained incidental surveillance on members of the Trump team.On Tuesday, The Washington Post reported former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page also was monitored by the FBI after the agency obtained a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act warrant as part of an ongoing investigation into possible links between Russian officials and members of the Trump campaign.In a statement to Fox News, Page said he has done nothing wrong and was a political target.Malia Zimmerman is an award-winning investigative reporter focusing on crime, homeland security, illegal immigration crime, terrorism and political corruption. Follow her on twitter at @MaliaMZimmermanAdam Housley joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in 2001 and currently serves as a Los Angeles-based senior correspondent.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/11/democrats-turn-on-gabbard-amid-syria-stance.html
Democrats turn on Gabbard amid Syria stanceTop Democrats are taking aim at one of their own, assailing Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard for appearing to defend Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad against allegations his regime dumped chemical weapons on a rebel-held area.Center for American Progress head Neera Tanden, who was a trusted adviser to Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, and former Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean lit into Gabbard on Twitter for her Syria stance.“This is a disgrace. Gabbard should not be in Congress,” Dean tweeted on Saturday.This is a disgrace. Gabbard should not be in Congress. https://t.co/yDTh43GZam— Howard Dean (@GovHowardDean) April 9, 2017The former Vermont governor and short-lived presidential candidate was responding to a tweet from Tanden that highlighted Gabbard saying she was “skeptical” that Assad’s regime carried out the chemical attacks. Assad’s guilt has been accepted by most U.S. officials, and President Trump authorized a retaliatory strike on Thursday in response to the horrific assault.“People of Hawaii’s 2nd district – was it not enough for you that your rep met with a murderous dictator? Will this move you?” Tanden wrote.People of Hawaii's 2nd district - was it not enough for you that your rep met with a murderous dictator? Will this move you?1 https://t.co/jbwGuZIJ6R— Neera Tanden (@neeratanden) April 7, 2017But Gabbard, who met with Assad earlier this year, has appeared largely unmoved by evidence that Assad was behind the chemical attack on April 4 in Idlib that killed more than 70 people, including children, and injured hundreds more.“U.S. attacks on Syria won’t save children, rather will strengthen Al Qaeda’s attempts to overtake Syria, leading to more deaths and refugees,” she tweeted Friday in response to the Trump-ordered missile attack.US attacks on Syria won't save children, rather will strengthen al-Qaeda's attempts to overtake Syria, leading to more deaths and refugees.— Tulsi Gabbard (@TulsiGabbard) April 7, 2017Gabbard has claimed that Assad is not alone in possessing chemical weapons, also suggesting that rebel and terror groups inside Syria have access to them; however, only Assad’s regime, among those groups, has jets such as the ones reportedly used to drop the chemical agent on Idlib. But as evidence mounts against Assad, Gabbard’s arguments have shifted to railing against the push for regime change.“Escalating Syria regime change war = more children and innocent people dying. #ResistTrumpsWar now,” she tweeted Friday, adding: “Have we not learned from Iraq and Libya? The road to hell is paved w/ good intentions. Escalation means more dead children, more refugees.”Escalating Syria regime change war = more children and innocent people dying. #ResistTrumpsWar now.— Tulsi Gabbard (@TulsiGabbard) April 9, 2017On Monday, Gabbard addressed her critics: “Those who’ve declared Trump a habitual liar now vilify those refusing to blindly follow him into another regime change war. Hypocrisy.”Those who've declared Trump a habitual liar now vilify those refusing to blindly follow him into another regime change war. Hypocrisy.— Tulsi Gabbard (@TulsiGabbard) April 10, 2017Gabbard visited Syria in January, meeting with Assad during a controversial “fact-finding” trip in the region. She was accompanied by former Rep. Dennis Kucinich, a Fox News contributor, who at the time stressed the importance of letting Syrians decide their political future.Given Gabbard’s journey from rising Democratic star – who also was under consideration for a Trump Cabinet position – to her recent position urging caution in addressing Assad's atrocities, Tanden wrote that she felt deceived.Referencing a tweet from December 2012, when Tanden praised Gabbard as potential Senate material, Tanden tweeted: “Yes, I thought this before she met with a ruthless dictator.“I was had.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/11/dems-making-close-race-in-kansas-in-1st-congressional-contest-under-trump.html
Dems making close race in Kansas, in 1st congressional contest under TrumpDemocrats are making a close race of the first congressional election since President Trump’s White House win, in a Kansas district held by Republicans for more than two decades.The special House election Tuesday is for the seat former GOP Rep. Mike Pompeo vacated in January when appointed CIA director.Trump won 60 percent of the district's vote last fall. But Republicans are increasingly pouring time and money into the final days of the race -- including the president tweeting and making a get-out-the-vote call for GOP candidate state Treasurer Ron Estes.“Ron Estes is running TODAY for Congress in the Great State of Kansas,” Trump tweeted Tuesday morning. “A wonderful guy, I need his help on Healthcare & Tax Cuts (Reform).”Despite Republicans’ strength in Kansas, the race between Estes and Democrat James Thompson, a civil rights attorney, appears close.The venerable Cook Political Report recently changed its rating from “safely Republican” to “lean Republican.”However, it’s unclear whether the competiveness of the race speaks to a potential voter backlash against Trump, who has record-low approval ratings, or Estes’ connection to GOP Gov. Sam Brownback, among the least popular governors in the country.The race also includes Libertarian nominee Chris Rockhold.The south-central Kansas congressional district includes 17 counties and the state's largest city, Wichita."Republican Ron Estes needs your vote and needs it badly," Trump said in his minute-long call to voters. "Our country needs help. Ron is going to be helping us, big league."In final-hour efforts to help Estes, Vice President Pence also recorded a call. And Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, who won Kansas’ 2016 GOP presidential primary, campaigned Monday in the state for him.In addition, the National Republican Congressional Committee has spent roughly $90,000 in last-minute TV and digital ads."I think it shows how desperate they are," Thompson said. "Rather than have a candidate who will actually get out and work and listen to people, they are trying to buy the campaign because that is what they do."Thompson raised nearly $254,000 -- with more than $248,000 of that money coming from individual contributions during the reporting period ending March 22. Recent campaign filings show he has raised nearly $23,000 since then in large donations of $1,000 or more.Political committees and groups have heavily bolstered Estes' campaign coffers.He has raked in about $312,000 from Jan. 1 to March 22, campaign finance filings show. That reporting period does not include almost $94,000 Este's campaign has received in recent days in large donations of $1,000 or larger.Trump's picks for top jobs in his administration and a California Democratic appointment have created five openings in the U.S. House, where Republicans have a 237-193 edge. Republicans are defending four GOP-leaning seats -- the Kansas seat plus Georgia, Montana and South Carolina -- while Democrats are protecting a seat in a liberal California district.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/07/rep-gabbard-syria-missile-strike-illegal-and-unconstitutional.html
Rep. Gabbard: Syria missile strike 'illegal and unconstitutional'Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, told Fox News' "Tucker Carlson Tonight" Friday that the American missile strike on a Syrian airfield as "an illegal and unconstitutional military strike" that drew the United States closer to military conflict with Russia.Gabbard, an Iraq War veteran, also said the strike was "an escalation of a counterproductive regime change war in Syria that our country’s been waging for years, first through the CIA covertly, and now overtly."FLASHBACK: GABBARD SAYS SHE MET WITH ASSAD DURING SYRIA TRIPIn January, Gabbard met with Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus. When host Tucker Carlson asked if she believed Assad's forces to be responsible for the chemical weapons attack that precipitated the missile strikes, Gabbard answered, "It doesn’t matter what I believe or not. What matters is evidence and facts."If the Trump administration has the evidence, unequivocally proving this, then share it with the American people," Gabbard continued. "Share it with Congress. Come to Congress and make your case before launching an unauthorized, illegal military strike against a foreign government."Gabbard also said that efforts to overthrow Assad would only strengthen extremist groups, and expressed concerns about Moscow's response to the missile strikes."Russia ... are very closely allied with Syria and ... have their own military operating [on] the ground there," the congresswoman said, "and when you consider the consequences of that, the United States and Russia being the two nuclear powers in the world, it should be a cause of great concern for everyone."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/07/nunes-steps-aside-trump-rips-rice-as-probe-keeps-hitting-potholes.html
Nunes steps aside, Trump rips Rice as probe keeps hitting potholesDevin Nunes, who recused himself from the House intelligence probe yesterday, is primarily a victim of his own political clumsiness.There’s no evidence that Susan Rice committed a crime, as President Trump suggests, but her initial denial on television has undercut her credibility.As the investigations of President Trump, Russia and surveillance lurch forward, there are so many conflicting narratives that it’s hard to untangle them all.And the latest developments come as the president is grappling with the Syrian chemical attack, his meeting with the Chinese president, the Senate going nuclear over Neil Gorsuch and an elusive compromise on the failed health care bill.But the subplots and sideshows involving the Russia investigations continues to permeate the media coverage day after day.In stepping aside, Nunes issued a statement ripping “several left-wing activist groups” who filed charges against him with the congressional ethics office. He called those charges “entirely false and politically motivated,” essentially saying he was stepping down from his committee’s probe to avoid becoming a distraction.But even some Republicans and conservatives had urged Nunes to take precisely that step.The problem was that the California congressman acted more like a Trump ally than the chairman of a bipartisan investigation. He secretly went to the White House grounds to view classified information related to the surveillance probe, then made a show of going back to the White House to brief the president and announce his concerns to the press. When the New York Times disclosed that it was White House officials who showed Nunes the stuff—but not, for several days, the panel’s top Democrat—it looked like the chairman was carrying the administration’s water. And then he started canceling hearings.So the most diplomatic way to put it is that Nunes had indeed become a distraction.Susan Rice insisted on MSNBC that she had no political motive for “unmasking” Trump or his aides when they were picked up on foreign intercepts, and flatly denied leaking anything about them.But the reputation of the woman who infamously and wrongly blamed the Benghazi attack on a video was undermined by the fact that she earlier told PBS she knew nothing about the Trump unmasking allegations.It was extraordinary for Trump to tell the New York Times that Rice probably committed a crime, without citing evidence. But there are questions about her motivations, and why she ordered the unmasking, that can only be resolved by her testifying before Congress.Will any of this—Trump’s original wiretap claim, alleged surveillance of him as a candidate and president-elect, purported collusion between his team and Russia—turn out to be more than just smoke? We have no way of knowing at the moment. But the thing about investigations is that they take unexpected twists and turns, sometimes even snaring those who are doing the investigating.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/06/ryan-on-obamacare-overhaul-real-progress-being-made.html
Ryan on ObamaCare overhaul: 'Real progress' being madeHouse Speaker Paul Ryan announced Thursday that “real progress” is being made in a revamped effort by Republicans to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, or ObamaCare.Ryan highlighted a new amendment by two House lawmakers that would restructure risk pools in the plan. “High-risk pools” are a mechanism to subsidize more expensive insurance coverage for those who are seriously ill.The House Rules Committee met Thursday afternoon to consider the amendment offered by Reps. Gary Palmer of Alabama and David Schweikert of Arizona – both of whom are members of the Freedom Caucus, the group that effectively blocked the first health care bill brought by Ryan.They voted 9-3 to advance the amendment, which will next go to the House floor for a full vote, though no schedule has been set.House members then headed home for a two-week recess Thursday. Republicans still face deep divisions in their party over the best way to repeal and replace ObamaCare.Before lawmakers left, Ryan tried to strike an optimistic tone and praised the Palmer-Schweikert amendment.“Their amendment makes this a much better bill,” Ryan said Thursday.  “This amendment alone is real progress and it will help us build momentum toward delivering on our pledge to the country.”Ryan added that there are other ideas Republicans are working on to build consensus but did not provide details.Ryan, who had publicly guaranteed a win with the Republican plan to repeal and replace ObamaCare, was forced to call off a floor vote on the measure two weeks ago after it became clear he did not have enough support from members of his own party.Ryan and Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price helped craft the bill that would have scaled back the federal role in health care and cut taxes for the wealthy. Deep differences emerged within the GOP over the bill.The defeat came at the hands of conservative members in Ryan’s own party. At the time, Ryan admitted “we’re going to be living with ObamaCare for the foreseeable future.”Virtually every congressional Republican won election promising to repeal ObamaCare. With a Republican in the White House, that passage seemed almost a done deal.After the debacle, Trump told Republican leaders he would be moving on with his agenda and focusing on tax reform. However, since then, Trump has made public statements that indicate the push to overhaul former President Barack Obama’s signature health care law is still a priority for the White House.On Wednesday, Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy met with President Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/06/nunes-steps-down-from-russia-trump-investigation.html
Nunes steps down from Russia-Trump investigationHouse Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes on Thursday stepped down temporarily from his role leading the committee’s probe of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign and possible surveillance of Trump associates by the prior administration.Nunes in a statement cited the efforts of "several leftwing activist groups" to lodge "entirely false and politically motivated" accusations against him with the Office of Congressional Ethics as his reason for sidelining himself. The House Ethics Committee is set to investigate the allegations against Nunes.Rep. Mike Conaway, R-Texas, is now set to lead the Russia/spying probe "with assistance" from Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., and Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Fla.[Image: Peter Doocy reports from Capitol Hill]Nunes said he would "continue to fulfill all my other responsibilities as Committee Chairman" and had requested to speak with the Ethics Committee "in order to expedite the dismissal of these false claims."Neither House Speaker Paul Ryan nor Nunes gave the White House a heads up about the announcement, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told Fox News. The Nunes news broke as President Trump was leaving a Wounded Warrior event. Spicer said he had not spoken to Trump about it but was expecting to do so shortly aboard Air Force 1.Spicer wouldn't comment on the specifics of the move, but said that Nunes' absence wouldn't change the "substance" of the House Intelligence Committee's investigation and praised Conaway, calling him "a great guy."In a written statement, Nunes suggested the accusations against him were timed to distract from reports about the names of Trump associates being "unmasked" in intelligence files during the latter weeks of the Obama administration by former National Security Adviser Susan Rice."The charges are entirely false and politically motivated, and are being leveled just as the American people are beginning to learn the truth about the improper unmasking of the identities of U.S. citizens and other abuses of power," he said.A source close to Nunes called the alleged Democrat-led campaign to file complaints with the Office of Congressional Ethics a "clever political trick." Even if vindicated -- which Nunes believes he will be -- too much political damage had already been done for Nunes to remain in his role leading the Russia/spying investigations, the source said.Another congressional staffer agreed with the claim that the complaints were a "coordinated tactic" organized by Democrats, and said the move was made to get the conversation off of Rice. The staffer said the news came on the eve of the Easter recess in order for it to have maximum impact.In a statement, the House Committee on Ethics said it was looking into allegations that Nunes "may have made unauthorized disclosures of classified information, in violation of House Rules, law, regulations, or other standards of conduct."Nunes last month held a news conference in which he discussed viewing classified reports that appeared to show the unmasking of Trump associates. He then controversially went to brief the president before meeting with the Intelligence Committee.Some detractors have wanted Nunes removed from the investigation for awhile, pointing to his role as a member of Trump's transition team and arguing that he could not lead an impartial investigation. Viewing the classified documents on White House grounds and briefing Trump only added fuel to the fire.Ryan backed Nunes' decision.“Devin Nunes has earned my trust over many years for his integrity and dedication to the critical work that the intelligence community does to keep America safe," Ryan, R-Wis., said in a statement. "He continues to have that trust, and I know he is eager to demonstrate to the Ethics Committee that he has followed all proper guidelines and laws."Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff, D-Calif., has publicly criticized Nunes' conduct and characterizations for weeks, however, he was conciliatory on Thursday."I know this was not an easy decision for the Chairman, with whom I have worked well for many years," Schiff said in a statement. "He did so in the best interests of the committee and I respect that decision."Fox News' Catherine Herridge, Serafin Gomez and John Roberts contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/05/house-gop-gives-attempt-to-revive-obamacare-repeal-mixed-reviews.html
House GOP gives attempt to revive ObamaCare repeal mixed reviewsHouse Republicans were noncommittal late Tuesday after about two dozen of them met with Vice President Mike Pence in an effort to resurrect the failed plan to repeal and replace ObamaCare.Pence had proposed letting states federal exemptions from insurance coverage requirements imposed by President Barack Obama's health care overhaul. But meeting participants said differences remained over giving states flexibility to drop those mandates. Meetings were set to continue Wednesday."Good talk. Making progress," House Budget Committee chair Diane Black, R-Tenn., told reporters as the meeting broke up."It was a very good exchange of ideas, with concerns that represent the very broad spectrum of our conference," said Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., who leads the conservative House Freedom Caucus. The group's roughly three dozen members have largely opposed the GOP legislation for not repealing enough of Obama's law.At the White House, Pence said he and President Donald Trump "remain confident that working with the Congress we will repeal and replace Obamacare."But there was no evidence that the proposal won over any GOP opponents who'd forced Trump and party leaders to beat an unceremonious retreat on their bill on March 24, when they canceled a House vote that was doomed to failure."We want to make sure that when we go, we have the votes to pass this bill," House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., told reporters. He said talks were in "the conceptual stage" and declined to predict a vote before Congress leaves town shortly for a two-week recess -- when lawmakers could face antagonistic grilling from voters at town hall meetings.Later in the day, Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., his party's chief vote counter, said talks were not at "a place where there is consensus" on health care and indicated a vote this week was unlikely.Under the White House proposal, states could apply for a federal waiver from a provision in Obama's statute obliging insurers to cover "essential health benefits," including mental health, maternity and substance abuse services. The current version of the GOP legislation would erase that coverage requirement but let states reimpose it themselves, language that is opposed by many moderates.In addition, the White House would let states seek an exemption to the law's provision banning insurers from charging higher premiums for seriously ill people. Conservatives have argued that such restrictions inflate consumers' costs.Reaction from rank-and-file GOP lawmakers was mixed. Moderate Rep. Frank LoBiondo, R-N.J., and conservative Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., each said they remained "no" votes, with Brooks saying states should be allowed to opt out of Obama's insurance requirements without seeking federal permission.Rep. Jim Renacci, R-Ohio, was among several moderates warning that a quick vote would be counter-productive."If leadership hasn't learned the lessons of the failures of two weeks ago, then they'll bring something forward where nobody knows about it and try and get it passed," Renacci said.Even so, some members of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus were showing signs of accepting less than many originally wanted. Meadows said talks were boiling down to curbing several of Obama's coverage requirements -- a far cry from the full repeal of the statute that many initially preferred."It perhaps is as much of a repeal as we can get done," Meadows told reporters. He added, "That's the calculation we have to make."Similarly, some moderates whose opposition was also instrumental in the legislation's failure expressed cautious optimism that the White House offer would produce results."We have to do things that will win people from both sides of the spectrum. Of course it's hard," said Rep. Tom MacArthur, R-N.J., a leader of the Tuesday Group of House GOP moderates.A poll by the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation flashed a warning for the White House, showing that 3 in 4 Americans want the Trump administration to make Obama's law work.About 2 in 3 were glad the House GOP bill didn't pass last month. But people split evenly between wanting to keep or repeal Obama's statute.The underlying House Republican bill would repeal much of Obama's 2010 law. It would erase its tax fines for consumers who don't buy policies, federal aid to help many afford coverage and Medicaid expansion for additional poor people.Instead, substitute GOP tax subsidies would be less generous than Obama's for many lower earners and people in their 50s and 60s, the overall Medicaid program would be cut, tax boosts on higher earners would be ended and consumers who let coverage lapse would face 30 percent premium hikes.Fox News' Chad Pergram and Jason Donner contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/02/schiff-still-no-definitive-link-between-russia-trump-campaign.html
Schiff: Still no 'definitive' link between Russia, Trump campaignThe top Democrat on the House committee investigating the ever-expanding probe into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 presidential race said Sunday that panel members still have no “definitive” evidence that the Trump campaign was working with Moscow to defeat Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.The first public indication that Russia might have been directly involved emerged in late summer with the release of hacked emails related to the Clinton campaign and from the Democratic National Committee.“I don't think we can say anything definitively at this point,” California Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House Permanent Select Commitee on Intelligence, told CNN’s “State of the Union.” “We are still at the very early stage of the investigation. The only thing I can say is that it would be irresponsible for us not to get to the bottom of this.”The U.S. intelligence community concluded several months ago that Russia meddled in the race, in which Trump upset the frontrunning Clinton.And now, the FBI as well as the House and Senate intelligence committees are investigating the matter, which includes retired Army Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn being fired as Trump’s national security adviser for not disclosing talks with at least one Russian official.The ordeal has grown to include allegations by Trump that the Obama administration wiretapped his campaign and evidence that Flynn initially failed to disclose roughly $67,000 in speaking fees from companies associated with Russia.Flynn lawyers have suggested their client will testify on Capitol Hill in exchange for immunity.Schiff said Sunday that he received the immunity offer with “healthy skepticism,” explaining that such a deal might undermine the Justice Department probe.Democrats and others say the House investigation has already been undermined by committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes and are calling for an independent, bipartisan probe like the so-called 9/11 Commission.Nunes, R-Calif., went directly to Trump after a secret intelligence briefing instead of first reporting his findings to the committee. He later acknowledged reviewing the reports at the White House.Nunes has resisted calls to step down. Schiff went to the White House last week to review the same documents that Nunes saw.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told “Fox News Sunday” that he doesn’t see the need for an independent probe.“It’s just not necessary based on what we know now,” he said. “We have a bipartisan investigation underway. .. We don’t need another investigation. It’s being handled appropriately.”Trump, who has suggested Flynn did nothing illegal and was a political victim, tweeted this weekend that the Russia-connection story is “fake news” and “The real story turns out to be SURVEILLANCE and LEAKING! Find the leakers.”The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence purportedly will begin interviewing witnesses this week and wants to speak with Trump's son-in-law and close adviser Jared Kushner.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/30/fearing-voter-backlash-republicans-bullish-again-on-obamacare-repeal.html
Fearing voter backlash, Republicans bullish again on ObamaCare repealStop me if you’ve heard this one before …House Republicans are united.They remain steadfast in their quest to repeal and replace ObamaCare.“We broke down many of those dividing lines within our conference,” proclaimed House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., as GOPers huddled in the basement of the U.S. Capitol Tuesday morning. “We are going to get there.”“We promised that we would repeal and replace ObamaCare. And that’s exactly what we’re going to do,” boasted House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif.“The resolve of our conference to repeal ObamaCare and replace it has never been stronger,” bragged House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La.“We remain committed to a better health care future to every person in this country,” said House Republican Conference Chairwoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash.Well, because this time, they really mean it.Now Republicans are just days from a two-week congressional recess for Easter and Passover. Many rank-and-file GOPers are trying to goad Ryan into calling a vote on the health care legislation the brass euthanized last Friday because it lacked the votes to pass. Lawmakers worry about raucous town halls. The dereliction of an eight-year campaign promise that they would repeal and replace ObamaCare.“I won’t tell you the timeline because we want to get it right,” said Ryan. “We have an aggressive agenda and we’ve been moving quickly on this aggressive agenda. But we want to make sure that we get it right.”Of course, it was Ryan who engineered the timeline to vote last week on the health care plan. The strategy would enable the Senate to vote on the health care plan this week and clear the decks to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch next week.Timelines mattered before. But they might not now.“I don’t think we’ve seen the end of health care,” opined White House spokesman Sean Spicer. “We’re looking for a way forward. A lot of members have reached out.”“We’re approaching the Easter season,” proffered House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden, R-Ore., who co-authored the health care legislation. “Some things rise from the dead.”Yeah. But …“It’s like there’s some invisible wall out there,” said one House Republican lawmaker who asked not to be identified. “If we vote on this bill….”Could the House truly pass the bill?“My fear is that people lock in and kind of double down on their position,” said Walden on resuscitating the health care bill.It’s possible that the positions of some lawmakers would harden – especially if they were nays before. If they didn’t like it the first time, resurrecting the old bill could infuriate the no votes even more. There’s also the distinct possibility of losing tepid yea votes. There’s a reason why these lawmakers halfheartedly supported the bill. The decision last week to yank it off the floor only solidifies their original gut instinct to oppose the package.By the same token, some Republicans think a snap roll call vote could force a moment of truth. Either you’re for it or against it. Ryan’s so-called “binary choice.” Calling a vote with little fanfare could compel intransigent lawmakers to vote for it.But that’s risky. It’s one thing if House vote counters were just a handful shy of votes for passage. It’s another matter when the number of noes are in the thirties and perhaps higher.And there’s another problem.House Republicans consolidated their health care measure into what’s called a budget reconciliation plan. Reconciliation is a special type of legislative process which inoculates bills from Senate filibusters. Senate Democrats would inevitably filibuster a garden variety bill to repeal and replace ObamaCare. However, this particular legislative route is filibuster-proof.That said, it’s generally believed the House and Senate only get one crack at a reconciliation package. Defeat on the floor burns that particular reconciliation measure. Moreover, the House and Senate can’t have two “live” reconciliation plans in the parliamentary mix simultaneously. The House hopes to adopt a budget in the coming weeks. That could create a new reconciliation package. If the House doesn’t exhaust the current reconciliation package on health care, it could postpone work on a budget for the next spending cycle.Unless the House can’t approve a budget.Remember, the House failed to adopt a budget last year -- despite the GOP’s piety when it comes to budget resolutions.If the bill fails, the House Republican leadership will blame its favorite bogeyman: the House Freedom Caucus. The Freedom Caucus deserves blame. But the House leadership struggled just as mightily to convince moderate Republicans to vote yes, too.Freedom Caucus leader Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., says it’s “possible” the House could vote. But Meadows believes the leadership team is still dealing with “artificial deadlines.” He says there’s been no talk of “specifics” and changes to court the necessary votes to pass a bill.It’s also virtually impossible to engineer a new bill in a few days or a week. Even if they did, many lawmakers would gripe they didn’t have sufficient time to digest the retrenched legislation.President Trump hosted a bipartisan reception at the White House for senators Tuesday night. The president declared that “we are all going to make a deal on health care. That is such an easy one. I have no doubt that that’s going to happen very quickly.”Cutting a bipartisan pact may be the only way Trump can achieve anything on health care.Unless Republicans get their act together.The GOP leadership claims the party is united. Optimism abounds. Surely this time they’ll repeal and replace ObamaCare.“Tomorrow is a good day,” said Kevin McCarthy about the health care bill. “I think we'll get it tomorrow.”Only that’s what McCarthy said last Thursday.Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/29/congressional-black-caucus-calls-for-ryan-to-pull-nunes-from-house-intel-committee.html
Congressional Black Caucus calls for Ryan to pull Nunes from House intel committeeThe 49-member Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Wednesday called on House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., to remove Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., from the House intelligence committee after Nunes refused to recuse himself from the committee's investigation of possible ties between Russia and President Trump's campaign.In a letter to Ryan, the all-Democratic CBC implored him to put "patriotism over party".Nunes has been criticized by Democrats after he met with a secret source on the White House grounds last week to review evidence that communications involving Trump's associates were caught up in "incidental" surveillance of foreign targets."Congressman Nunes’ recent actions have caused him to lose the confidence of members of his Committee," the CBC letter said, "and, more importantly, the American people, and he can no longer be trusted with the information that the committee receives."Nunes has refused to disclose his source or share the information with other members of the committee. Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., the committee's ranking member, called for Nunes to recuse himself from the investigation. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., has called for Ryan to remove Nunes as head of the committee.On Monday, Ryan spokeswoman AshLee Strong said the speaker has "full confidence that Chairman Nunes is conducting a thorough, fair and credible investigation."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/29/driver-rams-into-capitol-police-cruisers-as-car-chase-ends-in-hill-scare.html
Driver rams into Capitol Police cruisers as car chase ends in Hill scareA police car chase ended Wednesday morning with the suspect driving into Capitol Police cruisers and other vehicles near Capitol Hill before being arrested, in the latest security scare in the nation's capital.The chase of the female suspect appeared to have followed a traffic stop gone bad. A police official briefing reporters said the investigation is in “preliminary stages” but there appears to be “no nexus to terrorism.”“This incident appears to be criminal in nature,” the official said, adding that the standoff started as a “traffic stop.”Sources said the incident began when police saw the car driving erratically on Independence Avenue. After they tried to stop the vehicle, the driver did a U-turn near the Library of Congress and started driving the wrong way against traffic.Capitol Police then raised the barriers at the bottom of Capitol Hill to “trap” the vehicle inside the perimeter near the Botanic Garden and the Rayburn House Office Building.LAWMAKER sends video to me of shooting incident near Capitol. He was stuck in an Uber 1/2 pic.twitter.com/1nkmzkIoAB— Scott Wong (@scottwongDC) March 29, 2017The driver then stopped but "revved the engine" and tried to lurch forward.Fox News is told at least one officer fired a weapon at this point. The suspect was not hit. Further, police said no individuals were injured during the arrest.It is unclear if the suspect had a weapon.The chase occurred during the annual Cherry Blossom Festival, the height of Washington’s tourist season.The incident near the Capitol comes on the heels of multiple recent cases of people jumping the fence at the White House.On Sunday, a 38-year-old woman who had tried to jump a White House security fence last week, scaled a fence near the Treasury Building. Secret Service agents arrested her around 2:15 a.m.Earlier this month, a suspect named Jonathan Tuan Tran allegedly scaled two fences and a security gate to get on the White House grounds before he was arrested. Also this month, another man was arrested after jumping over a bike rack in an attempt to surmount the fence, and still another suspect was arrested for allegedly making a false bomb threat at a Secret Service checkpoint.Fox News’ Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/republicans-float-new-obamacare-replacement-plan.html
Republicans float new ObamaCare replacement planHouse Republicans are shopping around a new ObamaCare replacement plan, amid pressure to deliver a legislative win as President Trump nears the end of his first 100 days.“We have a good chance of getting it soon. I’d like to say next week, but I believe we will get it” eventually, Trump said Thursday at a White House press conference.“We’re very close,” House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said a day earlier at an event in London.Fox News is told they hope to have revised legislative text in the coming days, and lawmakers are set to discuss the proposal on a conference call this weekend. But it’s unclear when such a plan could hit the House floor or what level of support it might have – Congress is currently on recess, and lawmakers won’t return until next week.Fox News is told that leaders have not yet tried tallying support for the document on Capitol Hill."The question is whether it can get 216 votes in the House and the answer isn't clear at this time,” a senior GOP aide said. “There is no legislative text and therefore no agreement to do a whip count on."A White House source said they could potentially have a vote by the end of next week, though they put the chances at 50-50.The failure in March to pass an earlier replacement bill for the Affordable Care Act, amid widespread criticism of the plan, marked a major setback for Trump’s early presidency. He has since turned his attention to foreign affairs – especially the Syrian crisis – but continues to press for a new health care plan, blaming a bloc of House conservatives for the March meltdown.Complicating any renewed efforts, however, is next Friday’s deadline for Congress to pass a new budget measure. Congressional Republicans and the Trump administration likely will have to court Democrats to avoid this scenario. Further, the timetable is tight, with the House not set to return until Tuesday night.Interestingly, the government shutdown drama and health care could be directly linked.Just days ago, Trump declared he would yank subsidies known as “cost-sharing reductions” from ObamaCare programs. The government directs the CSR payments to insurers who grant coverage to low-income people. A dried-up subsidy could force insurers to drop ObamaCare and spike premiums for the poor.Trump views the ObamaCare subsidies as leverage to force Democrats to the table on health care. Democrats contend the president is holding the health care assistance “hostage” and imperiling those who aren’t well off.Trump said Thursday he wants to pass both a health care package and budget bill.“The spending bill cannot be done by one party alone,” opined Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., before the recess. “These bills can’t pass without a reasonable number of Democratic supporters in the Senate.”Fox News’ Chad Pergram and John Roberts contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/can-dems-kick-clinton-habit.html
Can Dems kick the Clinton habit?On the roster: Can Dems kick the Clinton habit? - Trump readies potential trade fight with China on steel - White House ready to risk shutdown to push 100-day priorities - I’ll Tell You What: Epic Battle - Game, set, match… mate?CAN DEMS KICK THE CLINTON HABIT?In his 1999 liberal polemic, “No One Left to Lie To,” Christopher Hitchens shamed Democrats for vigorously defending and rehabilitating a president and first lady who had so thoroughly betrayed the party and its ideals.Hitchens enumerated the ways in which he said self-interest and double dealings had been the hallmarks of Clintonism before, during and after then-President Bill Clinton’s impeachment for lying about his assignations with a 21-year-old White House intern.What Hitchens found most galling was the way in which the first couple managed to make themselves ideological martyrs to the very people whom they betrayed.“Obtuse righteousness is inscribed in every move, physical or political, that the Clinton’s make,” he wrote. “Neither ever offers -- for all their tin-roof ‘humility’ -- a word of self-criticism.”The Clintons have been out of the White House for more than 16 years and Hitchens has been dead since 2011, but those words ring as true today as they did then.Two things stand out about the current effort to rehabilitate and make martyr Hillary Clinton: speed and un-necessity.Clinton concluded her second failed presidential candidacy just five months ago, having managed to blow an enormous lead against an underfunded, baggage-laden, disorganized rival. She did worse than any Democratic nominee since Michael Dukakis.A belly-flop of that magnitude ought to take a person more than five months to get over. The fact that she has reemerged as a national political figure in such a short period tells us that Hitchens was on to something way back when.When it comes to the Clintons and the apportionment of blame, charity definitely does not begin at home.This episode of “Fixer Upper with Bill and Hillary Clinton” has been thrown something of a plot twist by an emergence of a book about the myriad failings of her campaign. The political press has been salivating over the morsels from “Shattered,” by Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes.Arrogance, obtuseness, infighting and, most of all, entitlement drip off of the pages. It is a strong indictment of a presidential campaign that has been written in recent memory.On the other side of the news stand, however, is the face of former first daughter Chelsea Clinton, twisted in a mirthless laugh on the cover of Variety.The message from the next generation is much the same as that from the previous one: it’s not our fault.The Clintons are certainly right that they were not helped by the FBI investigation into the former secretary of state secrets or Russian hacking and leaking of campaign emails or even, yes, sexism.But at no time does anyone on “Planet Hillary” seem to accept the fact that the candidate herself had to do with at least two of those things. She is the one who chose to run for president while under criminal investigation. She is the one who helped foster the institutional culture that led to the icky emails. No matter what James Comey and the Russians did, the most recent Democratic nominee will still be remembered as one of the great political choke artists of all time. In 2008, she blamed sexism and the once-in-a-lifetime rise of Barack Obama. In 2016, there was another set of excuses, but basically the same story.None of this would matter at all if it was not for the fact that Democrats seem to be falling for this stuff again. The reflexive desire to preserve, protect and defend the Clintons even in the face of their failings is, as Andrew Sullivan explained this week, mystifying.Rather than accepting the unavoidable truth that their nominee was bad at politics, Democrats have devolved into a weird bought of infighting over whether she was to blame or not. This is a party that desperately needs to reconnect with working-class white voters and developing an alternate vision to Trumpism.The Clintons absolutely will never be able to quit in their quest to return to power. That restraint is simply not within them, now even in another generation. Democrats will have to have a one-sided break up.Republicans had enough sense in 2016, at least, to realize that another round of Bushes was not a good idea. There was only one thing that most Republicans could agree on in the early going and that was that Jeb Bush was not for them. As was often observed, had the former Florida governor not been the former brother and son of former presidents he might have done much better, but the GOP’s self-imposed Bush ban held firm anyway.The near-future of the Democratic Party may depend on its ability to spurn similar advances from the House of Clinton.THE RULEBOOK: DOCTOR, DOCTOR“Such a patient and in such a situation is America at this moment. She has been sensible of her malady. She has obtained a regular and unanimous advice from men of her own deliberate choice. And she is warned by others against following this advice under pain of the most fatal consequences. Do the monitors deny the reality of her danger? No. Do they deny the necessity of some speedy and powerful remedy? No. Are they agreed, are any two of them agreed, in their objections to the remedy proposed, or in the proper one to be substituted? Let them speak for themselves.” – James Madison, Federalist No. 38TIME OUT: SYLVIA MOY, R.I.P.LA Times: “Sylvia Moy, a prolific Motown songwriter who is credited with energizing Stevie Wonder’s career with a string of early hits, has died at the age of 78. Moy, who died Saturday at a hospital in Dearborn, Mich., was one of the few — and perhaps the first — female songwriters and producers at Motown Records in the early ’60s... Her skills as a songwriter were so apparent and the label’s need for new music so dire that record executives convinced her to put her own singing career on hold and focus on songwriting. … One of those artists was Wonder, who’d hit a slump after recording ‘Fingertips’ as a 13-year-old phenom. Working with songwriter Henry Cosby, Moy helped fix that by composing a string of now-familiar hits for Wonder — ‘Uptight (Everything’s Alright)’, ‘My Cherie Amour’, ‘I Was Made to Love Her’ and ‘Never Had a Dream Come True.’ ‘I just believed in him,’ she told the Detroit Free Press in 2016.”Flag on the play? - Email us atHALFTIMEREPORT@FOXNEWS.COM with your tips, comments or questions.TRUMP READIES POTENTIAL TRADE FIGHT WITH CHINA ON STEELPolitico: “The Commerce Department late Wednesday initiated an investigation to determine whether steel imports into the U.S. should be blocked on national security grounds, an administration official said. President Donald Trump will sign a memorandum today directing the department to conduct a speedy investigation and come back with recommendations, the official said. A number of steel industry executives have been invited to the White House for an event with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. Representatives from ArcelorMittal, Nucor, U.S. Steel, AK Steel and Timken are expected, along with the president of the United Steelworkers union. China’s excess capacity to produce steel is seen as a long-term threat to the U.S. steel industry’s viability, but the investigation will not single out any particular country. It also will look broadly at overall steel imports rather than individual steel products, the official said.”GRASSLEY HINTS AT IMPENDING SUPCO RETIREMENTThe Hill: “Sen. Chuck Grassley is predicting that President Trump will get to nominate a second justice to the Supreme Court as early as this summer. The Iowa Republican, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said there is a ‘rumored’ upcoming retirement but declined to say which justice he expects to step down. ‘I would expect a resignation this summer,’ Grassley said during a Q&A with the Muscatine Journal in Iowa. Grassley added that the president's next Supreme Court nominee would likely come off the list of roughly two dozen names Trump announced before taking over the White House. Trump could be able to make multiple nominations, allowing him to shape the direction of the court for decades. As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Grassley would be responsible for shepherding the nomination through the Senate.”WHITE HOUSE READY TO RISK SHUTDOWN TO PUSH 100-DAY PRIORITIESPolitico: “The White House, under internal pressure to show legislative achievements ahead of the 100-day mark, is gearing up for a government shutdown fight to secure money for a border wall, more immigration enforcement officers and a bigger military, according to White House and congressional sources familiar with the plan. It is a risky gambit. With almost uniform Democratic opposition to nearly all of the Trump administration's spending proposals, the fight could lead to a government shutdown next Friday — the day government spending expires, and right before the 100th day of Donald Trump's presidency. Officials could also strike a one-week compromise, giving them more time for a broader agreement. Congressional Republicans, desperately looking to avoid a shutdown scare, are eyeing a modest increase for border security — perhaps an increase in funding for surveillance technology — and a small uptick in military spending.”Ryan says work continues on ObamaCare replacement - The Hill: “Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said Republicans are putting the ‘finishing touches’ on an effort to revive their ObamaCare replacement bill. ‘We’re in the midst of negotiating sort of finishing touches, because our members want to make sure that we lower premiums,’ Ryan said Wednesday during a question-and-answer session during a trip to London. Talks on the healthcare measure have continued during Congress's two-week recess. Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, and Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), co-chairman of the centrist Tuesday Group, have said they have spoken to Ryan’s office and Vice President Pence about the next steps.”I’LL TELL YOU WHAT: EPIC BATTLEDana Perino and Chris Stirewalt are back, discussing everything from this week’s special election in Georgia to how President Trump, trumped us all with the misplaced warship. Plus, the duo wishes a very happy 14th birthday to America’s most-discussed diabetic cat. LISTEN AND SUBSCRIBE HEREPLAY-BY-PLAYWhite House tangled up in Trump’s claim about the “armada” - The HillSessions Senate replacement faces a full field in bid for full term - National JournalTrump rewards loyalist Scott Brown with New Zealand ambassador nod - PoliticoMove over Jay-Z and Beyoncé, Trump’s got Sarah Palin, Ted Nugent and Kid Rock - Fox News4/20, y’all: Poll finds highest support ever for legal pot, opposition to Trump rollback effort - CBS NewsAUDIBLE: THEY DIDN’T EVEN HAVE TWITTER BACK THEN“It’s a clear fact acknowledged by the international community that, for thousands of years in history, Korea has never been part of China.” – Foreign ministry spokesman for South Korea, Cho June-hyuck, said at a briefing in Seoul on Thursday in response to reports of Trump claiming Chinese President Xi Jinping told him, “Korea actually used to be a part of China.”FROM THE BLEACHERS“The Republican Party is showing that they have no guts.  The Democrats are so far off the rails that the GOP has a golden opportunity if they will get off their ideological horse.  If they don’t then they will get what they deserve.  Trump is at least trying to do something while the rest of the politicians sit on their hands and complain.  Don’t pin this on Trump.  It’s the GOP mouthing words while showing they are no better than the Democrats.  They are all in it for themselves.” – Michael Johnson, Fairfield Glade, Tenn.[Ed. note: Political parties are poor repositories for ideologies. As we have often discussed in this space, a political party is designed to win elections, not carry forward an ideological point of view. Issues come and go and so do philosophical trends. The two shape each other and, in turn, shape the national discussion and the parties themselves. But… there are limits. Ultimately a party’s success depends on building coalitions of voters based on their preferred policy objectives. There are many Republicans who believe in Trump as a person and a leader, irrespective of his views. In Trump they trust. There are others who would oppose anything Trump suggested, feeling it tainted by association with a man they detest. But for most voters who choose Republican candidates, it is based on a belief that it is a party that favors smaller government, lower taxes, less regulation and a strong national defense. If policies deviate too far from those norms, the coalition cannot hold. The work that Trump has as the leader of his party is to help forge a coalition that not only can produce results in the short term, but last for more than one election.]Share your color commentary: Email us at HALFTIMEREPORT@FOXNEWS.COM and please make sure to include your name and hometown.THE JUDGE’S RULING: POWER TO THE PEOPLEFox News Senior Judicial Analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano explores the nexus between self-government and surveillance: “What if those who pull the levers of power in the intelligence community are so far removed from the voters that they don’t know and don’t care what the voters think?” More here.GAME, SET, MATCH… MATE?Reuters: “The score of a televised professional tennis match in Florida was love-15 when the apparent sounds of a woman in the throes of lovemaking interrupted it Tuesday night. The competition, at the Sarasota Open in Florida, briefly stalled after a woman could be heard shouting, ‘Oh, yes!’ according to a video posted on YouTube. One of the two bemused American players, Mitchell Krueger, whacked a tennis ball far out of bounds toward the source of the racket, which the TV commentator said came from a nearby apartment. Spectators laughed along, particularly when the sounds grew even louder as player Frances Tiafoe readied a serve. ‘It can't be that good!’ Tiafoe yelled toward the noise. A woman spectator at that point jokingly urged a young boy to place his hands over his ears, the video showed.”AND NOW, A WORD FROM CHARLES…“The fact that the most popular politician among Democrats of course is Bernie Sanders, who will be 78 in 2020, gives you an idea of the extent of the devastation Obama has left behind in the Democratic Party.” – Charles Krauthammer on “Special Report with Bret Baier.”Chris Stirewalt is the politics editor for Fox News. Brianna McClelland contributed to this report. Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.Chris Stirewalt joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in July of 2010 and serves as politics editor based in Washington, D.C. Additionally, he authors the daily Fox News Halftime Report political news note and co-hosts the hit podcast, Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What. He also is the host of Power Play, a feature video series on FoxNews.com. Stirewalt makes frequent appearances on network programs, including America’s Newsroom, Special Report with Bret Baier and Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace. He also provides expert political analysis for FNC’s coverage of state, congressional and presidential elections.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/dems-new-message-republicans-don-t-give-sh-t.html
Dems' new message: Republicans 'don’t give a sh-t’After a grueling, trash-talking 2016 election, the new leader of the Democratic National Committee hasn’t exactly taken great pains to raise the level of political discourse in America.Tom Perez’s latest attack on Republicans is: they “don’t give a sh-t” about voters.The DNC chairman unloaded on the GOP at a rally on Monday in Maine, after leveling the same attack weeks earlier in New Jersey. Analysts say it’s part of a strategy to rev up the Democratic base. But, after then-candidate Donald Trump was slammed last year for casting off civility in politics – with profanity-laced speeches and an insult-driven debate style – Perez’s rhetoric could be taking his party down the same path in spite of calls for a more unifying message after their 2016 drubbing.[Image: demshirtpic]   Expand / ContractThe Democratic National Committee has a coarse new battle cry. (DNC website)“Republican leaders and President Trump don't give a sh-t about the people they were trying to hurt,” Perez, an Obama administration labor secretary, said Monday in Maine about the GOP’s plan to replace ObamaCare, known formally as the Affordable Care Act.Though Perez was blasted for similar comments in New Jersey, he and fellow Democrats have apparently turned the blistering talking point into a populist battle cry.The Democratic Party’s official store is selling a “Democrats Give a Sh-t about People” T-shirt, for $30 apiece.“I totally get what Perez is doing,” Jennifer Victor, a politics professor at Virginia’s George Mason University, said Wednesday. “His job is to energize the base with anger or whatever else it might take because Democrats are the down-and-out party. And he’s not facing the strategic dilemma of, say, a senator who might compromise every once in a while. But it’s definitely not civil.”During the hard-fought DNC leadership race, Perez was cast as the more moderate choice, in a contest against Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn.Rob Carter, a member of the Maryland Republican Party, said electing the former local Maryland official to lead the beleaguered DNC still marked a “seismic shift to the left” that ignored Democrats’ pleas to appeal more to middle America.“Talk about not understanding your voters, the selection of Tom Perez was ironic at best,” he said.“Perez is doing everything he can to move past Democrats’ historically poor recent election cycles and make voters forget how little they cared about the average American,” Republican strategist Joe Desilets told Fox News. “That’s evident in the burdensome ObamaCare legislation they passed and that has been progressing down the path to failure for years now.”For decades, Democrats and Republicans have called for more civility in politics, with little success as they point fingers and attempt to claim the higher ground.In fact, a civility pledge sent in 2010 to every member of Congress and U.S. governor -- 585 total lawmakers -- was signed by just one senator and two House members.The Civility Project, the bipartisan group that sent the pledge, disbanded a year later.“This political divide has become so sharp that everything is black and white, and too many conservatives can see no redeeming value in any liberal or Democrat,” Republican co-founder Mark DeMoss later told The New York Times. “That would probably be true about some liberals going the other direction, but I didn’t hear from them.”DeMoss did not return a call requesting comment for this story. A DNC representative also did not immediately return a request for comment.Trump showed little interest in maintaining political decorum during the 2016 presidential campaign, with comments about “stupid” U.S. leaders and threats about “bombing the sh-t out of ISIS.”He promised in February 2016 to never again use foul language. Then a 2005 videotape made public just weeks before Election Day showed Trump making lewd comments about women and nearly tanked his campaign.Two days before the election, Trump tried to retake the high ground, criticizing rap impresario Jay-Z for using vulgar and racially charged language at a Hillary Clinton rally.“Can you imagine if I just said that,” Trump said at rally in Florida. “He used every word in the book. I never said what he said in my life. But that shows you the phoniness of politics.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/irs-anti-fraud-program-plagued-by-delays-costing-taxpayers-millions.html
IRS anti-fraud program plagued by delays, costing taxpayers millionsThe rollout of an IRS program meant to catch fraudulent tax returns has been plagued by delays and cost overruns, according to a government watchdog – and one Republican lawmaker is demanding answers.Citizens Against Government Waste slammed the "wasteful" and "ineffective" program in a report timed with the tax-filing deadline earlier this week.At issue is an IRS effort to replace the Electronic Fraud Detection System (EFDS) – which dates back to 1994 -- with an update called the Return Review Program (RRP). In 2010, the IRS described the EFDS “too risky to maintain, upgrade or operate beyond 2015.”However, despite the program being in development since 2009, the replacement is not expected to be completed until 2022.And that time is money.According to a 2015 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) report, a two-year pilot program found the new program missed tens of thousands of fraudulent returns, amounting to a cost of $313 million.The CAGW noted a 2015 Government Accountability Office report also found the program exceeded its initial budget by $86.5 million.“This is unfortunately typical of information technology modernization projects throughout the federal government,” Tom Schatz, president of the CAGW, told Fox News. “The unfortunate result is that many of its projects are behind schedule, the technology is outdated, and they usually have large cost overruns.”In March, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, wrote to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, expressing concern about the program and demanding answers to a series of questions about the state of RRP.“In an era where new technologies rapidly become outdated, taking 14 years to fully implement a major IT system is simply unacceptable,” Hatch wrote. “Furthermore, the IRS has paid far more than the initial $57.5 million in estimated costs to date.”The inspector general report found that until the IRS can retire the old program, the additional operational and maintenance costs could be as high as $18.2 million a year.The problem of combating tax fraud isn’t going away, either. According to IRS numbers, the government lost an average of $458 billion a year this way between 2008 and 2010.The CAGW report concludes that the best way to solve the current problem would be to transfer to an existing private platform instead, as the IRS’ criminal division is already doing.“As the IRS continues to process tax returns, it should provide a better return on its efforts to prevent the filing of fraudulent returns. The best way to accomplish that goal would be to immediately seek out and utilize existing, successful platforms in the private sector, and then say RIP to the RPP,” the report says.The IRS has not responded to a request for comment.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/syrian-government-moves-aircraft-to-russian-base-for-protection.html
Syrian government moves aircraft to Russian base for protectionThe Syrian government has moved almost all of its operational aircraft -- both jets and helicopters -- to a Russian airbase in Syria for protection from another possible round of U.S. airstrikes, Fox News has confirmed.The movement of the aircraft to the base at Bassel Al-Assad International Airport began soon after the U.S. Navy on April 6 launched 59 Tomahawk missiles at the Shayrat Airbase in Syria.Nearly two-dozen Syrian jets were destroyed at Shayrat Airbase during the cruise missile strike, launched from the USS Porter and USS Ross, two destroyers in the eastern Mediterranean.“There is a clear sense of paranoia,” a senior defense official told Fox News about the movement of large numbers of Syrian aircraft after the strike.U.S. Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis initially said 20 percent of Syria’s air force had been destroyed in the cruise missile attack, but later backtracked and said that 20 aircraft had been rendered inoperable.The Russian airbase is where Moscow keeps dozens of jets and helicopters of its own and is protected by advanced fourth-generation air defense systems.Russia said it would help Syria beef up its defenses in the wake of the U.S. cruise missile strike, and many see this as a sign they are following through.Senior military officials at the Pentagon say the Syrian airbase was targeted because of its involvement in the chemical attack involving sarin gas, which killed over 70 civilians including women and children in northern Syria on April 4.  It was meant to send a message to the Assad regime not to use chemical weapons.After the chemical weapons attack in Syria’s Idlib Province, a Russian drone was seen flying over a hospital where victims of the chemical weapons attack were taken. Five hours later, the hospital was bombed.U.S. officials have yet to determine whether a Syrian or Russian jet bombed the hospital because the Syrian Air Force fly Russian-made jets.Fox News' Yonat Friling contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/05/10/comey-tossed-stick-dynamite-into-doj-says-white-house.html
Comey tossed 'stick of dynamite' into the DOJ, says White HouseThe White House on Wednesday defended President Trump’s decision to fire James Comey, saying the former FBI director threw a “stick of dynamite” into the Department of Justice, and committed “atrocities” in his handling of the Clinton email saga.White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked at the daily press briefing why Trump had soured on Comey, despite recent statements by Press Secretary Sean Spicer that Trump had confidence in the FBI director.Sanders denied reports that Trump had put Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein up to recommending the firing, which caught Washington by surprise Tuesday evening. Instead, Sanders said, Rosenstein himself recommended the firing in a Monday meeting with Trump over Comey’s handling of the Clinton email scandal. The White House says that Trump then asked Rosenstein to put that recommendation into writing, which he did.“I cannot defend the director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails,” Rosenstein wrote in his subsequent letter to Trump, “and I do not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken. Almost everyone agrees that the director made serious mistakes; it is one of the few issues that unites people of diverse perspectives.”Trump told reporters Wednesday the decision came because Comey “was not doing a good job.” Some Democrats have expressed concern that the firing is related to the FBI’s investigation into alleged ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.Sanders said Trump had been considering letting Comey go from his role since the election, and that there had been “an erosion of confidence,” but indicated that the final straw for Rosenstein and Trump was Comey’s testimony last week before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. At that hearing, Comey answered wide-ranging questions about his controversial handling of the probe into Hillary Clinton's private email server last year.Sanders said Comey’s testimony showed that he had committed "atrocities in circumventing the chain of command” at the Department of Justice and said he had thrown a “stick of dynamite” by going around then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch in calling a press conference in July 2016 to announce his recommendation not to press charges against Clinton.“When you...throw a stick of dynamite into the Department of Justice, that cannot be ignored,” Sanders said.When a reporter at the briefing argued that there was little in Comey’s testimony that was not already widely known, Sanders said it was the first time Comey had "publicly and openly" made clear how he handled the probe.Sanders also took a shot at Democrats complaining about Comey’s firing, saying it was the “purest form of hypocrisy” considering their frequent past criticisms of the former FBI director. She said it was “startling” that Democrats aren’t celebrating the move,“I think it’s startling that Democrats aren’t celebrating this since they’ve been calling it for so long,” she said.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/21/medias-new-question-on-trump-will-talk-us-into-war.html
The media's new question on Trump: 'Will he talk us into a war?'President Trump is creeping up in the polls now that foreign policy has seized center stage.With his domestic agenda lagging for now, Trump is discovering, as his predecessors did, that a president has far greater latitude on the world stage. At the same time, global events have demanded an administration response.It’s hardly surprising that Trump’s approval rating is getting a little better—up six points, to 40 percent, in a new Quinnipiac poll. He launched widely praised airstrikes against Syria over a chemical weapons attack, and used the Mother of All Bombs against ISIS in Afghanistan.Presidents usually get a boost after taking military action, though that can be short-lived.By challenging North Korea with tough verbal exchanges, as that regime is making nuclear threats, Trump also keeps the focus on foreign affairs--as opposed to tax reform or the failed health care bill.Now the media’s critique of Trump is shifting. New York Times reporter Glenn Thrush tweeted: “Will he talk us into a war?”Here is the story he coauthored with Mark Landler:“Mr. Trump’s confrontational and improvisational approach to foreign affairs has lifted his mood, fortunes and poll numbers in recent days…“But Mr. Trump’s mix of chest thumping and real action — the missile attack and the use of a huge bomb against Islamic militants in Afghanistan — entails serious risks overseas. It could also backfire at home, where a majority of Americans, and many of the populist conservatives who backed him in 2016, oppose long-term military commitments.”And here comes the Mother of All Nut Grafs:“The biggest risk, critics say, is that Mr. Trump will talk himself into a war. Only slightly less dangerously, he could weaken the nation’s standing by backing off from a threat to use force.”Well, there is certainly risk in pressuring North Korea, bombing Syria and escalating firepower in Afghanistan. But there is also the risk of inaction—which Barack Obama was often accused of, especially in Syria, with his “leading from behind” approach.The Washington Post says the president’s foreign policy is being “undercut by confusing and conflicting messages from within his administration.“Over the past two weeks, policy pronouncements from senior Trump aides have often been at odds with one another — such as whether Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must leave power as part of a negotiated resolution to end that nation’s civil war.”And there is evidence to back that up. Rex Tillerson and Nikki Haley sometimes use harsher rhetoric than Trump, whether it’s on Russia, Syria or ISIS. But another view is that this reflects Trump’s unique style. By letting his lieutenants rattle sabers, the president may project ambiguity about his intentions and keep our enemies guessing.One of his constant refrains during the campaign was that he wasn’t going to telegraph military action.But there are times when the mixed messages simply don’t work. After Trump tried to exert pressure by saying he was sending an armada to the region of the Korean Peninsula, the administration had to admit that it sailed to Indonesia—a rather roundabout route.In the end, the president has to produce results in some of the world’s trouble spots—and his track record will matter more than any media scorekeeping.
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/04/21/sen-paul-rep-walberg-civil-forfeiture-has-ruined-countless-lives-its-long-overdue-for-reform.html
Sen. Paul, Rep. Walberg: Civil forfeiture has ruined countless lives. It's long overdue for reformJustice Clarence Thomas made headlines last month when he criticized civil forfeiture, a notorious police practice that allows law enforcement to confiscate property, even from people who have never been charged with a crime. “This system,” he wrote, “has led to egregious and well-chronicled abuses.”Hearing one of the Supreme Court’s most conservative members denounce such a shameful violation of our civil liberties gives us hope that civil forfeiture can be drastically curtailed.To prevent future abuses, I, along with Rep. Tim Walberg, reintroduced the Fifth Amendment Integrity Restoration Act (FAIR Act) in March. The FAIR Act would dramatically reform federal civil-forfeiture laws to respect the American people’s Fifth Amendment rights while maintaining the ability of courts to order the surrender of proceeds from crime.During the 1980s, as the war on drugs was ramping up, Congress enacted legislation that made it far easier for the federal government to seize cash, cars, and even real estate.Worst of all, Congress created powerful financial incentives to pursue civil-forfeiture cases.Once a property is forfeited, federal agencies can auction it off and collect up to 100 percent of the proceeds or retain it for their own use; previously, forfeiture proceeds were directed to the Treasury’s General Fund.According to a report by the Institute for Justice, a public interest law firm, the Justice Department’s Assets Forfeiture Fund skyrocketed from just under $94 million to more than $4.5 billion between 1986 and 2014.State and local law enforcement can get a cut of the action, too, thanks to a program that Congress also created in the 1980s. Under “equitable sharing,” police and prosecutors can bypass state laws and collaborate with a federal agency to forfeit property under federal law. If successful, local and state agencies can even receive up to 80 percent of the proceeds.In a bombshell report released last week, the Office of Inspector General (OIG) found that the Justice Department has funneled more than $6 billion in equitable-sharing funds to local and state agencies since 2000. Several law enforcement officials even told the OIG that the “primary reason” they turn to equitable sharing is because “their states’ forfeiture laws restrict law enforcement’s use of forfeiture.”Allowing agencies to win bounties from forfeiture has warped priorities for law enforcement.Russ Caswell knows this all too well.  Russ owned a motel in Tewksbury, Massachusetts, which had been run by the Caswell family since 1955. But his small business, which he owned free and clear and was valued at $1.5 million, became a tempting target for equitable sharing.Although Russ was never charged with a crime, the federal government and local police claimed his motel “facilitated” criminal activity.The reason? Prosecutors identified 15 “drug-related incidents” that occurred out of 196,000 rented rooms.It was later revealed that a federal drug agent was found combing through public records, searching for properties the government could seize.Thankfully, after the Institute for Justice took on his case pro bono, Russ won in federal court and could finally sell his motel and retire.But the vast majority of forfeiture victims are not so lucky.  A sweeping investigation by The Washington Post found over 60,000 cash seizures where police never filed charges. The seizures disproportionately affected African-Americans, Hispanics, and other minorities.Stories like these are why the FAIR Act is so critical. First and foremost, the FAIR Act would abolish equitable sharing and redirect all forfeiture proceeds to the Treasury’s General Fund. Both reforms would end the perverse incentives that encourage police to pursue cash over criminals.In order to restore the constitutional right to due process, the FAIR Act would ensure all property owners facing civil forfeiture have a right to an attorney, and it would restore the presumption of innocence. Right now, owners must bear the burden of proof, which flips our constitutional protections on their head.The FAIR Act is bipartisan, bicameral legislation that has brought together a diverse coalition. The ACLU, Americans for Tax Reform, Campaign for Liberty, Drug Policy Alliance, FreedomWorks, Heritage Action, Institute for Justice, NACDL, and NFIB — organizations from all across the ideological spectrum — have endorsed the FAIR Act.Further, forfeiture reform is the rare issue that earned the backing of both the Republican and Democratic Party platforms last summer.For far too long, civil forfeiture has ruined the lives of tens of thousands of Americans who have done nothing wrong.Government agents should not profit from seizing property, especially if that property was taken from the innocent. We call on Congress to support the FAIR Act and end this un-American injustice.Republican Tim Walberg represents Michigan's 7th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives.Republican Rand Paul represents Kentucky in the United States Senate.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/trump-says-iran-not-living-up-to-spirit-nuclear-deal.html
Trump says Iran 'not living up to the spirit' of nuclear dealPresident Trump said Thursday that Iran is “not living up to the spirit” of the nuclear deal struck under the Obama administration, warning that his team is analyzing it “very, very carefully.”The president made the comments during a White House press conference, a day after Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced a “comprehensive review” of the nuclear deal. Even as the administration this week formally certified that Iran is complying with the deal’s terms, Trump said Thursday that Tehran is not doing enough.“They are doing a tremendous disservice to an agreement that was signed,” Trump said. “They are not living up to the spirit of the agreement.”The president did not go into specifics, and left open the door to whether the administration might scrap, uphold or try to revise the Obama-era agreement.“We will see what happens,” Trump said.The administration has made clear it is looking closely at the agreement, which Trump has long criticized, without signaling what the end-goal might be. Earlier Thursday, Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif  -- a key player in international negotiations for the deal that had Iran curb its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief – tweeted, “Worn-out US accusations can't mask its admission of Iran's compliance w/ JCPOA, obligating US to change course & fulfill its own commitments.”Trump spoke Thursday at a joint press conference alongside visiting Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni.The visit comes as the Trump administration is tackling multiple foreign challenges including the Syrian civil war, Iran’s nuclear ambitions and most immediately the tensions on the Korean Peninsula. Moments before their press conference, a police officer reportedly was killed and two were wounded in a shooting on the Champs-Elysees in Paris.“It looks like another terrorist attack,” Trump said, offering his “condolences” to the French people. “What can you say, it just never ends.”On North Korea, Trump said he hopes to address the problem, with China’s help. He said he has told Chinese President Xi Jinping they could get a much better trade deal if they “get rid of this menace” or otherwise help ease the situation in North Korea.Tillerson said Wednesday the U.S. was exploring ways to pressure North Korea to the negotiating table over its nuclear program. North Korean state media later threatened to launch a "super-mighty pre-emptive strike" that would reduce South Korea and the United states "to ashes."Italy could be more closely involved in dealing with Syria, in its capacity as a member of the G-7.The G-7 nations have urged Russia to pressure the Syrian government to end the six-year civil war, and blame Bashar Assad's military for a recent chemical attack that killed more than 80 people.Trump will travel to Europe next month for the first time since taking office for a NATO meeting in Brussels, followed by a G-7 meeting in Italy.G-7 members include the U.S., Germany, France, Britain, Canada, Japan and Italy.Italy is also a member of NATO, the military alliance to which Trump says the U.S. contributes more than it receives.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/trump-orders-probe-foreign-steel-s-impact-on-us-security.html
Trump orders probe of foreign steel’s impact on US securityPresident Trump on Thursday ordered an investigation into whether foreign steel is hurting national security.“From now on, we’re going to stand up for American jobs, workers, their security and for American steel companies,” he said, signing a memo formalizing the investigation alongside U.S. steelmakers.The Commerce Department technically launched the investigation earlier this week.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the reason is tied to the president’s request for increased military spending, which he says “would inevitably have an effect on steel.”Ross said the U.S. steel industry is only operating at 71 percent of capacity, and foreign imports represent 26 percent – adding there is clearly room for an increase in domestic production.Trump stressed the concerns go beyond the impact on the U.S. economy.“Maintaining the production of American steel is extremely important to our national security,” he said.A 1960s trade law gives the president authority to restrict imports if they are determined to be harmful to U.S. security interests. The law requires that the investigation be concluded within 270 days, but Ross said the timeline will be expedited.U.S. prominence in the steel industry has been slipping for decades.According to the Belgium-based World Steel Association, American-made steel once accounted for roughly 20 percent of global production, but had slipped to less than 5 percent by 2015.China made up less than 3 percent of U.S. steel imports.Fox News’ Lesa Jansen and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/sarah-palin-kid-rock-ted-nugent-visit-president-trump-at-white-house.html
Sarah Palin, Kid Rock, Ted Nugent visit President Trump at the White HouseTo paraphrase a famous magazine cover: Break the Internet, President Trump.In a gathering of perhaps the most famous conservative personalities and entertainers in the country, former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin and musicians Kid Rock and Ted Nugent dined at the White House with Trump on Wednesday night.Palin, Nugent and Kid Rock supported Trump during his underdog presidential candidacy, with Palin, the 2008 GOP vice presidential candidate, backing Trump early in the Republican primary process."A great night at the White House. Thank you to President Trump for the invite!" Palin wrote on Twitter."Well well well looky looky here boogie chillin', I got your Shot Heard Round The World right here in big ol greazya-- Washington DC where your 1 & only MotorCity Madman Whackmaster StrapAssasin1 dined with President Donald J Trump at the WhiteHouse to Make America Great Again! Got that?" Nugent wrote in a Facebook post, citing the 242nd anniversary of the Revolutionary War battles of Lexington and Concord.Nugent, an avid hunter and advocate of the Second Amendment, expanded on the encounter in a blog post for Deer & Deer Hunting Magazine."We discussed specifically the counterproductive follies of the Endangered Species Act and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as the US Fish & Wildlife Service, [Bureau of Land Management] and other out of control bureaucracies," Nugent wrote.Kid Rock had yet to post a comment or pictures to his Twitter or Facebook accounts.His fiancee Audrey Berry and Nugent's wife, Shemane, were also at the dinner. White House counselor Kellyanne Conway was present, too, The Hill reported.Fox News' Lesa Jansen contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/trumps-celebrity-court-how-spotlight-highlights-every-clash-among-his-aides.html
Trump's celebrity court: How the spotlight highlights every clash among his aidesEvery administration is divided by policy battles as the president and his aides hammer out what they want to do and how they can push it through.But it’s rare that this plays out so publicly.And part of the reason is that the Trump White House is filled with celebrities—not just the former reality TV star but a collection of advisers who have become household names.Kellyanne. Bannon. Spicer. Jared. Ivanka. Reince.A number of them have their own “SNL” characters: Alec Baldwin, Melissa McCarthy and whoever plays that Grim Reaper guy. They aren’t just names in a newspaper.Just yesterday, the Washington Post ran a story headlined “Top Trump Advisers At Odds Over Paris Climate Deal.” Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump are “considered supportive of the deal.”The Post published a second piece: “On Russia, Trump and His Top National Security Aides Seem to Be At Odds.”Nikki Haley, Rex Tillerson, H.R. McMaster and Mike Pompeo are much tougher in their rhetoric toward the Putin regime than is Donald Trump.But the key to why we follow this internecine warfare so closely may be reflected in this Politico piece on how senior Trump aides have become famous in their own right—not just famous-for-Washington, but actual television stars.Kellyanne Conway is swarmed by selfie-seekers everywhere she goes.Sean Spicer draws about 3 million viewers for his daily briefings, and sometimes more than that. A Politico/Morning Consult poll put his name recognition at over 60 percent—the question isn’t usually asked about White House press secretaries.Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus have both been subjected to waves of speculative stories about whether they are losing influence or on their way out—which have mostly overblown or just wrong.And The Family makes news with every skirmish or skiing vacation.Politico suggests that Trump orchestrated all this so that his White House would indeed resemble a television series. I rather doubt that. It may be driven more by the intense media interest in all things Trump, with a reflected spotlight on those around him.In the last administration, how much did journalists really care whether David Axelrod, Valerie Jarrett and Robert Gibbs were getting along? Or Andy Card, Karl Rove and Ari Fleischer? After an initial period, the press briefings were rarely carried live.Of course, we didn’t have a president who made news with virtually every tweet.Whether top White House aides and Cabinet officers are clashing over policy initiatives is definitely news, if not the stuff of "The Apprentice."But at a time when even the courtiers in Trump’s royal court are boldfaced names, there is a soap-opera quality to the coverage.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/19/spicer-trump-is-committed-to-conservative-principles-and-agenda.html
Spicer: Trump is 'committed to the conservative principles and agenda'White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer defended the Trump administration's accomplishments Wednesday as it neared the 100-day benchmark."Look at the record that he’s achieved over these first 90 days," Spicer told Fox News' "The First 100 Days." "It’s very clear that he’s committed to the conservative principles and agenda that he outlined in the campaign."WITH THE 'DEMOCRATIC INVASION' OF THE WHITE HOUSE, CUBAN STARTING TO WARM UP TO TRUMP PRESIDENCYSpicer also denied that the president was being unduly influenced by dueling cliques within the West Wing."This is always about Donald Trump," Spicer told host Martha MacCallum. "He is the ultimate decider. It is his agenda that everybody else is here to implement, not the other way around."ROB GRONKOWSKI MAKES CAMEO AT WHITE HOUSE PRESS BRIEFINGThe administration's chief spokesman also reiterated that the White House is still looking for a way to repeal and replace ObamaCare, saying "the appetite to really get this done continues to grow.""I think we understand how bad this is for our economy, for our health care," Spicer added, "so there’s an effort to make sure that we do things that are going to increase access and lower costs, which is not the case right now."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/19/rob-gronkowski-makes-cameo-at-white-house-press-briefing.html
Rob Gronkowski makes cameo at White House press briefingRob Gronkowski – White House press secretary?That unlikely scenario nearly played out (sort of) during Wednesday’s White House press briefing when the New England Patriots star tight end made a cameo appearance offering aid to (the real) Press Secretary Sean Spicer.“Sean, need any help?” a mischievous-looking Gronkowski asked after emerging from a door behind the podium.Spicer, a well-documented Patriots fan, replied with a smile: “I think I got this but thank you. Maybe. All right, thanks man. I’ll see you in a minute.”Spicer tried to compose himself and return to reporters' questions. “All right, heh, that was cool … How do you follow that?” he said.Gronkowski and many of his Patriots teammates were at the White House to be honored for their win in January’s Super Bowl LI.At the subsequent ceremony in front of the White House, owner Robert Kraft gave President Trump a helmet and jersey emblazoned with Trump's last name..@POTUS receives special @Patriots jersey with his name on it. pic.twitter.com/QpDz450VGw— Fox News (@FoxNews) April 19, 2017Kraft called Trump "a very good friend of mine" and described him as somone who, like the Patriots, had faced extremely tough odds and prevailed.Trump also made a comparison between himself and the Patriots, noting they had won the Super Bowl in "one of the greatest comebacks of all time" and had defied the pundits."Boy, they're wrong a lot, aren't they?" Trump said.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/18/trump-signs-order-to-clamp-down-on-visa-program-enforce-buy-american-policy.html
Trump signs order to clamp down on visa program, enforce 'buy American' policyPresident Trump on Tuesday signed an executive order that will make it harder for American tech companies to hire employees from foreign countries willing to work for less money than Americans.Trump signed the “Buy American, Hire American” order during his visit to the Snap-on Tools headquarters in Kenosha, Wis. The president called the order “bold new steps” toward making good on his campaign promises to generate more jobs for out-of-work Americans.Trump called the order “a powerful signal to the world” that “finally puts America first.”“We are finally standing up for our workers and our companies,” Trump said.The order targets the H1-B visa program, which allows U.S. companies to employ graduate level workers in specialty occupations like IT, engineering, mathematics and science. Among other changes, the White House wants to end the H1-B lottery system and replace it with a merit-based one - though it’s unclear exactly what criteria they would use.“We’re going to switch away from a random lottery system in which it’s weighted toward the lowest-wage workers towards a system that prioritizes higher-skilled, higher-paid workers, which would make it much more difficult to use it to replace American workers,” a senior administration official said Monday.Each year on April 1, a fresh cap for H1-B visa applications is set by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Under the current system, applications are then randomly selected in a lottery system.Trump’s order also empowers federal agencies to reexamine loopholes in the government’s procurement process. Specifically, they would look into whether waivers in free-trade agreements are leading to unfair trade by companies outside the U.S. and whether it undercuts American companies on a global playing field.On the campaign trail, Trump repeatedly vilified companies that looked to hire foreign workers. He vowed to end the H1-B program which, he said, allowed big business to fire Americans and replace them with foreigners.Currently, the government’s H-1B visa program admits 85,000 immigrants in each year to handle high-tech jobs. The number of application for H1-B visas fell to 199,000 this year from 236,000 in 2016 and 233,000 in 2015, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.Trump’s order also requires applicants and their employers to demonstrate that the HB-1 visas awards will only go to the most highly skilled workers in their fields.Trump has come under fire for not practicing what he preaches.While he has pledged to support American goods and workers, some of his Trump-branded products are made overseas or made by foreign workers. The president  also has been accused of looking the other way when his son Eric Trump asked to bring in 29 workers to work at Trump Vineyard Estates through the federal H-2A visa program.That program enables agricultural employers to bring in seasonal foreign workers.According to filings, job orders for Trump Vineyard Estates say the primary tasks include planting and cultivating vines, adding grow tubes and pruning grape vines.During his wide-ranging speech, Trump also promised to fix the nation’s crumbling infrastructure, beef up trade deals, tweak the tax code and pass a new health care bill that will replace and repeal ObamaCare. He also said he wanted to work with lawmakers on getting Wisconsin dairy workers to get into the Canadian market.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/18/trump-illegal-immigrant-criminals-are-getting-hell-out.html
Trump: Illegal immigrant criminals are 'getting the hell out'President Trump told Fox News that criminal illegal immigrants are “getting the hell out” of the U.S. or being thrown behind bars, as he also took to Twitter to rail against gangs like MS-13 and the Obama administration policies he claims allowed them to flourish in American cities.In an interview that aired Tuesday morning on “Fox & Friends,” Trump spoke highly of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, who is responsible for enforcing Trump’s border policy. Reprising remarks he made at the very start of his presidential bid, he emphasized the importance of removing criminal aliens.“We’ve gotten tremendous criminals out of this country,” Trump said. “I’m talking about illegal immigrants that were here that caused tremendous crime. That have murdered people, raped people – horrible things have happened. They’re getting the hell out or they’re going to prison.”Trump echoed those comments on Twitter, pointing to Central American export MS-13, a gang thought to be behind a quadruple homicide on Long Island last week. Though the gang has been around for decades, it’s grown more dangerous.“The weak illegal immigration policies of the Obama Admin. allowed bad MS-13 gangs to form in cities across U.S. We are removing them fast!” Trump tweeted.The weak illegal immigration policies of the Obama Admin. allowed bad MS 13 gangs to form in cities across U.S. We are removing them fast!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2017Deporting illegal immigrants and clamping down on crime were central planks of Trump’s presidential platform. As he tightens immigration policies, Kelly and Attorney General Jeff Sessions are planning to visit the U.S.-Mexico border together later this week.“And so many towns and cities are thanking me because we have gotten rid of a burden that you would not believe. It is a serious problem and we never did anything about it, and now we’re doing something about it,” Trump told Fox News.On North Korea, Trump again refused to spell out his strategy for dealing with the country’s volatile dictator. He also wouldn’t comment when asked if the U.S. disrupted a recent North Korea missile test via cyber weapons.“I don’t want to telegraph what I’m doing or what I’m thinking ... we’ll see what happens,” Trump said. “I hope things work out well. I hope there’s going to be peace. But you know, they’ve been talking with this gentleman for a long time ... everybody’s been outplayed. They’ve all been outplayed by this gentleman and we’ll see what happens.”Asked what would happen if North Korea were to test another missile – as it has vowed to do – Trump cryptically replied: “We’ll find out.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/18/trump-to-order-increased-scrutiny-h-1b-visa-program.html
Trump to order increased scrutiny of H-1B visa programPresident Trump will travel to Wisconsin Tuesday, where he will sign an order aimed at changing a visa program that brings in highly skilled workers from overseas.The order, dubbed "Buy American, Hire American," would direct the departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Labor and State to propose new rules to prevent immigration fraud and abuse. Those departments would also be asked to offer changes so that H-1B visas are awarded to the "most-skilled or highest-paid applicants."The White House said the H-1B program is currently undercutting American workers by bringing in cheaper labor and said some tech companies are using it to hire large numbers of workers and drive down wages.Administration officials said the order also seeks to strengthen requirements that American-made products be used in certain federal construction projects, as well as in various federal transportation grant-funded projects. The officials said the commerce secretary will review how to close loopholes in enforcing the existing rules and provide recommendations to the president.The order specifically asks the secretary to review waivers of these rules that exist in free-trade agreements. The administration said that if the waivers are not benefiting the United States they will be "renegotiated or revoked."During his campaign, Trump said at some points he supported high-skilled visas, then came out against them. At one debate, he called for fully ending the program, saying: "It's very bad for our workers and it's unfair for our workers. And we should end it."The officials said the changes could be administrative or legislative and could include higher fees for the visas, changing the wage scale for the program or other initiatives.About 85,000 H-1B visas are distributed annually by lottery. Many go to technology companies, which argue that the United States has a shortage of skilled technology workers.But critics say the program has been hijacked by staffing companies that use the visas to import foreigners -- often from India -- who will work for less than Americans. The staffing companies then sell their services to corporate clients who use them to outsource tech work.Employers from Walt Disney World to the University of California in San Francisco have laid off their tech employees and replaced them with H-1B visa holders. Adding to the indignity: The U.S. workers are sometimes asked to train their replacements to qualify for severance packages.On the planned order by Trump, Ronil Hira, a professor in public policy at Howard University and a critic of the H-1B program, told the Associated Press, "It's better than nothing." But he added, "It's not as aggressive as it needs to be."The tech industry has argued that the H-1B program is needed because it encourages students to stay in the U.S. after getting degrees in high-tech specialties -- and they can't always find enough American workers with the skills they need.Congress is considering several bills to overhaul the visa program. One, introduced by Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill. and Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, would require companies seeking H-1B visas to first make a good-faith effort to hire Americans, a requirement many companies can dodge under the current system; give the Labor Department more power to investigate and sanction H-1B abuses; and give "the best and brightest" foreign students studying in the U.S. priority in getting H-1B visas.Trump will sign the order at the Kenosha headquarters of tool manufacturer Snap-on Inc. His visit comes as the president faces an approval rating of just 41 percent in Wisconsin, a state he barely won in November. The visit also would take him to the congressional district of House Speaker Paul Ryan, who won't be joining the president because he's on a bipartisan congressional trip visiting NATO countries.Trump has traveled to promote his agenda less than his recent predecessors. White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump wanted to visit "a company that builds American-made tools with American workers."Trump carried Wisconsin in November by nearly 23,000 votes -- less than 1 percentage point -- making him the first Republican to win the state since 1984. He campaigned on the promise of returning manufacturing jobs that have been lost in Upper Midwest states.Founded in Wisconsin in 1920, Snap-on makes hand and power tools, diagnostics software, information and management systems, and shop equipment for use in a variety of industries, including agriculture, the military and aviation. It has eight manufacturing sites in North America, including one in Milwaukee. The company employs about 11,000 people worldwide.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/16/trump-blasts-tax-day-protests-says-election-is-over.html
Trump blasts Tax Day protests, says 'election is over!'President Trump on Sunday criticized the weekend protests against his presidency and those demanding the release of his tax returns, suggesting deep-pocked opponents “paid” for them and saying the 2016 presidential “election is over.”At least 20 people were arrested Saturday at a park in Berkley, Calif., when attendees of a pro-Trump and an anti-Trump rally clashed.Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2017Police in riot gear confiscated sticks, knives and fireworks that were being hurled in the melee, after failed efforts to separate the events with makeshift fencing.“Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over!” Trump tweeted Sunday.The anti-Trump rally was one of about 150 across the country on Saturday to criticize the president’s policies and demand that he release his full IRS returns.Related stories...Police arrest at least 20 as protesters clash at pro-Trump rally in BerkeleyTax March turns into demand for Trump's IRS filings; 20 reported arrestsTax Day protests: Anti-Trump marches planned nationwide to demand tax returnsOther events took place without major incidents in such U.S. cities as Chicago, New York, Seattle and Washington, D.C., and outside of Trump’s south Florida resort home, Mar-a-Lago.Many of the events, on Tax Day, the deadline for hundreds of millions of Americans to file their IRS returns, were organized by the group TaxMarch.org, whose executive committee includes a former Occupy Wall Street protester.Others helping organize the events Saturday included labor unions and activist groups such as MoveOn.org and Common Cause.“I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?” Trump also tweeted Sunday.I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2017That Trump will cave to the pressure and release his full tax returns appears unlikely, considering the president has said he won’t amid an ongoing IRS audit and the White House saying in January that he will not.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/15/trump-gives-generals-more-freedom-to-make-decisions-in-isis-fight.html
Trump gives generals more freedom to make decisions in ISIS fightU.S. military commanders are stepping up their fight against Islamist extremism as President Donald Trump’s administration urges them to make more battlefield decisions on their own.As the White House works on a broad strategy, America’s top military commanders are implementing the vision articulated by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis: Decimate Islamic State’s Middle East strongholds and ensure that the militants don’t establish new beachheads in places such as Afghanistan.“There’s nothing formal, but it is beginning to take shape,” a senior U.S. defense official said Friday. “There is a sense among these commanders that they are able to do a bit more—and so they are.”While military commanders complained about White House micromanagement under former President Barack Obama, they are now being told they have more freedom to make decisions without consulting Mr. Trump. Military commanders around the world are being encouraged to stretch the limits of their existing authorities when needed, but to think seriously about the consequences of their decisions.The more muscular military approach is expanding as the Trump administration debates a comprehensive new strategy to defeat Islamic State. Mr. Mattis has sketched out such a global plan, but the administration has yet to agree on it. While the political debate continues, the military is being encouraged to take more aggressive steps against Islamic extremists around the world.The firmer military stance has fueled growing concerns among State Department officials working on Middle East policy that the Trump administration is giving short shrift to the diplomatic tools the Obama administration favored. Removing the carrot from the traditional carrot-and-stick approach, some State Department officials warn, could hamper the pursuit of long-term strategies needed to prevent volatile conflicts from reigniting once the shooting stops.The new approach was on display this week in Afghanistan, where Gen. John Nicholson, head of the U.S.-led coalition there, decided to use one of the military’s biggest nonnuclear bombs—a Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, or MOAB—to hit a remote Islamic State underground network of tunnels and caves.A senior administration official said Mr. Trump didn’t know about the weapon’s use until it had been dropped.Mr. Mattis “is telling them, ‘It’s not the same as it was, you don’t have to ask us before you drop a MOAB,’” the senior defense official said. “Technically there’s no piece of paper that says you have to ask the president to drop a MOAB. But last year this time, the way [things were] meant, ‘I’m going to drop a MOAB, better let the White House know.’”The more aggressive military approach comes as the long slog against Islamic State is bearing fruit. The group is on the back foot in its Iraqi stronghold, Mosul, and is facing a hard battle to defend its de facto Syrian capital, Raqqa.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/14/trump-plays-hardball-with-dems-on-obamacare-payments.html
Trump plays hardball with Dems on ObamaCare paymentsPresident Trump has riled congressional Democrats by threatening earlier this week to hold back payments to health insurers in an apparent bid to get them to negotiate over a new ObamaCare replacement package.The president needled the minority party – which he’s suggested he could work with in the wake of House Republicans’ failure to pass an earlier repeal/replace bill – in a wide-ranging interview this week with The Wall Street Journal.While his comments to the newspaper on foreign threats and White House palace intrigue drew more attention, Trump pointedly threatened not to pay what are known as "cost-sharing" subsidies to insurers meant to bring down the cost of deductibles and copayments for consumers. They're separate from the better-known premium subsidies that customers receive. But without them, experts say the government marketplaces that provide subsidized private insurance could face turmoil.“I don’t want people to get hurt,” Trump said in the Journal interview. “What I think should happen—and will happen—is the Democrats will start calling me and negotiating.”So far, Democrats are taking the opposite approach – lashing out at Trump and instead demanding that the payments be included in an upcoming spending bill.“Refusing to make the Cost Sharing Reduction payments has no purpose but to hurt millions of people, and manufacture a crisis,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said in a statement. “If President Trump followed through on his appalling threat, millions of Americans would see their out-of-pocket costs skyrocket and premiums would immediately be driven up by at least 15 percent.”The new administration has continued to make cost-sharing payments to insurers as it weighs options.Meanwhile, the Trump administration announced limited fixes Thursday for shaky health insurance markets, while reaffirming its goal of dismantling the Obama-era law.Many of the changes announced Thursday follow recommendations from insurers, who wanted the government to address shortcomings with HealthCare.gov markets, including complaints that some people are gaming the system by signing up only when they get sick, and then dropping out after being treated.The changes announced Thursday include:-- A shortened sign-up window of 45 days, starting with coverage for 2018.-- Curbs on "special enrollment periods" that allow consumers to sign up outside the normal open enrollment window.-- Allowing an insurer to collect past debt for unpaid premiums from the prior 12 months before applying a consumer's payments to a new policy.-- Giving insurers more flexibility to design low-premium plans that can be tailored to young adults."While these steps will help stabilize the individual and small group markets, they are not a long-term cure for the problems that the Affordable Care Act has created in our health care system," Seema Verma, the Trump administration official responsible for the markets, said in a statement.The changes come as insurers are figuring out their plans for 2018.This year saw premium increases averaging 25 percent for a standard plan in states served by HealthCare.gov. Some insurers say they've lost hundreds of millions of dollars, and many have pulled back or are considering it.Most communities will have competing insurers on the public marketplace next year, but a growing number will be down to one, and some areas may face having none.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/14/bannon-bashing-why-press-is-targeting-trump-aide-as-barely-hanging-on.html
Bannon bashing: Why the press is targeting the Trump aide as barely hanging onI don’t know whether Steve Bannon has a long-term future in the White House, but I do know this:The press wants him out.There has been an almost obsessive focus with the fate of President Trump’s chief strategist, and the tone of the stories about the internal battles is unmistakable.Bannon is the wild man, the extremist, the nationalist who is pulling the president in the wrong direction. He is fighting the moderates, the realists, the gang led by Jared Kushner that is nudging the president in a more reasonable direction.And the Kushner faction, which includes a couple of Wall Street veterans, happens to favor the kind of compromises that most journalists want.As an added bonus, Bannon has made no secret of his loathing for the press. So there’s an element of payback here as well.I’m not minimizing the importance of these battles. Since Trump is not a fiercely ideological leader, the voices he listens to may well shape the future of his administration.But there is a tendency in some media quarters to depict the combative Bannon as a Svengali who is pulling the president’s strings. The reality is that Trump was sounding nationalist themes, especially on trade and economic issues, decades ago. The reality is that Bannon joined the campaign for the final 2-1/2 months.That is not to minimize his importance as a force in the White House. Trump respects Bannon as a former Goldman Sachs executive and Hollywood entrepreneur who made his own fortune. But Trump is at heart a dealmaker who prides himself on flexibility.It’s also true that the president wants to be the star of his own show. Bannon hasn’t exactly sought a high profile, passing up every television interview request since he joined the campaign. But the Time magazine cover on him—“The Great Manipulator”—didn’t please the boss.The infighting, waged through constant leaks to the press, is all too real and goes well beyond Bannon. But the friction between Bannon and Kushner reached the point where Trump told them to work things out, or he would do it for them. And a son-in-law tends not to lose that kind of battle.A couple of presidential interviews this week have fueled the notion that Bannon is on thin ice. Trump told the Wall Street Journal that Bannon is “a guy who works for me.”And the president said this to New York Post columnist Michael Goodwin: “I like Steve, but you have to remember he was not involved in my campaign until very late. I had already beaten all the senators and all the governors, and I didn’t know Steve. I’m my own strategist.”To me, that’s a bit of a brushback pitch to remind Bannon that hey, he’s staff, and that it was Trump that got Trump elected.But the Washington Post says Bannon has been “publicly humiliated by his boss.”The paper called him “a marked man,” and then used this medical metaphor:“The president’s comments were described by White House officials as a dressing-down and warning shot, though one Bannon friend, reflecting on them Wednesday, likened Bannon to a terminally ill family member who had been moved into hospice care.”There were also leaked and damaging assessments in the New York Times, which said Bannon is keeping a low profile due to his “isolation inside the White House,” with aides describing Trump’s “growing irritation” with all the credit he is getting.And this zinger, quoting a source as saying Trump has described Bannon as “not a team player.”But for all the journalistic drama, both papers get around to acknowledging that nothing may change.The Post: “For now, at least, Bannon may survive the turmoil.”The Times: “One person with firsthand knowledge of internal White House dynamics…insisted that no immediate changes were likely.”Ah. Never mind.Bannon is a symbol. To many Trump supporters, he represents the defiant, revolutionary conservatism they want from the president. To many Trump detractors, and many media types, he represents an undisciplined, extremist ideology--a pirate, in Newt Gingrich's word. It's still unclear whether he'll ultimately have to walk the plank.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/trump-weighs-sanctions-other-measures-against-north-korea.html
Trump weighs sanctions, other measures against North KoreaThe Trump administration is weighing the possibility of imposing additional sanctions on North Korea if the rogue nation continues to fire missiles or conducts its sixth nuclear test.“We are exploring a new range of diplomatic, security, and economic measures in response to the North Korean regime's continued provocations. North Korea must understand that the only path to a secure, economically-prosperous future is to abandon its development of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles, and other weapons of mass destruction,” an administration official told Fox Business Network.Among the sanctions under consideration reportedly are an oil embargo, a ban on North Korea's national airline Air Koryo, and a crackdown on companies or individuals who do business with North Korea or lend financial support to its nuclear proliferation program.“There’s a whole host of things that are possible, all the way up to what’s essentially a trade quarantine on North Korea,” an administration official told Reuters news agency, which was first to report potential new sanctions.Tensions in the Korean Peninsula are increasingly on edge this week as North Korea prepares to celebrate the birthday of Kim Il-sung, its founding father, on Saturday.The anniversary has been marked in past years by military parades and displays of its weapons, including in 2016 when it tested a new intermediate-range missile.On Thursday, China’s foreign ministry issued a statement after the call asserting President Xi believes the North Korea “issue” can be “solved through peaceful means and is ready to maintain communication and coordination with the United States on the issue.”President Trump tweeted he has “great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea” but, he added on Thursday morning, “if they are unable to do so, the U.S., with its allies, will! U.S.A.”Speaking at an afternoon event at the White House, Trump said frankly, "North Korea is a problem, the problem will be taken care of."State Department spokesman Mark Toner also said during a Thursday briefing that the administration remains concerned about North Korea.Although he did not offer details about Vice President Pence's upcoming trip to Asia, he reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to its allies. He said a message will be sent to North Korea that the "steadfast, ironclad support" for Japan and South Korea remains "absolute."How to deal with Pyongyang’s provocations actions continue to factor largely in talks between the U.S. and China.“Had a very good call last night with the President of China concerning the menace of North Korea,” Trump tweeted Wednesday.Just last month the administration opted for non-military punitive measures in response to recent missile launches.In response to Pyongyang’s ongoing development of nuclear weapons and violations of United Nations resolutions, the Treasury Department sanctioned 11 North Koreans and one North Korean coal company for providing financial support to North Korea.“Today’s sanctions are aimed at disrupting the networks and methods that the Government of North Korea employs to fund its unlawful nuclear, ballistic missile, and proliferation programs,” said Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin in a March 31 statement.But the U.S. decision to launch missiles on a Syrian military airbase last week -- and most recently to drop the military's largest non-nuclear bomb on an ISIS target in Afghanistan -- could be seen as sending a message to Pyongyang and its allies.After the April 5 firing of a ballistic missile into the Sea of Japan, the Chinese government issued an order sending several ships carrying coal back to North Korea.In February, China banned all imports of coal from North Korea after it tested a new intermediate-range missile.While Chinese imports of coal declined 51.6 percent in the first three months of 2017 compared with 2016, Beijing retains strong trade ties with Pyongyang.According to data released by China on Thursday, overall trade between the nations has increased 37.4 percent in the first quarter of 2017.Trump this week ordered the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier group toward the Sea of Japan, but Pentagon officials assert it was diverted out of prudence, not because of a “specific reason” or event.“[The USS Vinson] operates freely up and down the Pacific, and she's just on her way up there because that's where we thought it was most prudent to have her at this time. There's not a specific demand signal or specific reason why we're sending her up there,” Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis told reporters on Tuesday.Fox Business Network's Blake Burman contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/trump-sheds-nationalist-coat-as-bannon-wing-chastened.html
Trump sheds nationalist coat, as Bannon wing chastenedCandidate Donald Trump was going to fire Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen, bench the Export-Import Bank, diminish NATO, stay out of the Middle East – and, of course, take on China, which he called “the No. 1 abuser of this country.”President Trump has read from a different script.The hard-line, populist tenor that dominated Trump’s insurgent candidacy has given way to a more centrist governing philosophy and, as Trump nears the end of his first 100 days looking to rack up accomplishments, he's edging away from some of the nationalist stances that endeared him to his base.Trump, in a series of tweets, on Wednesday disputed the notion he’s veered from the course he set on the campaign trail.“One by one we are keeping our promises – on the border, on energy, on jobs, on regulations. Big changes are happening!” Trump wrote. “Jobs are returning, illegal immigration is plummeting, law, order and justice are being restored. We are truly making America great again!”Trump's administration indeed continues to focus foremost on the economy and immigration enforcement. But he's also moved to build, not burn, bridges on the global stage.Just on Wednesday, Trump embraced NATO, backed down from calling China a currency manipulator, said he supported the Ex-Im bank and spoke highly of Yellen.He praised NATO after meeting Wednesday with Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, backing off his pre-inauguration criticism of the defense alliance. “I said [NATO] was obsolete. It’s no longer obsolete,” he said.And in a Wall Street Journal interview, Trump said he would no longer label China a currency manipulator, after meeting last week with President Xi Jinping. In the same interview, he spoke of filling vacancies on the Ex-Im Bank, which gives loans to foreign firms to buy U.S. products, among other services -- and which Trump slammed during the campaign.Trump and his supporters contend that while he's flexible, he's only modulating his position because he's getting what he truly wants. He suggested Wednesday he's warming to NATO because allies are cooperating more on fighting terror.But as Trump also moved last week to bomb the Syrian military -- shifting focus overseas after failing to get a vote on an ObamaCare replacement -- the changes and other factors are seen as a setback for the Steve Bannon branch of the White House.Bannon, Trump’s controversial chief strategist, has been repeatedly undermined in recent days, first by his boss in interviews with The New York Post and Wall Street Journal and then, Thursday morning, with anonymously-sourced articles in The New York Times and Washington Post asserting Bannon’s influence is waning and his days at Trump’s side may be numbered.Bannon, who previously led fiery, right-wing Breitbart News, is seen by many as the keeper of the populist flame inside the West Wing. But as Bannon-favored agenda items have been blunted in the early going – the stalling of the ObamaCare replacement bill, the travel ban fiasco – Trump appears to have turned for now toward more conventional policy favored by so-called Washington insiders whom he railed about on the campaign trail.The visibility of other key White House conservatives, such as senior adviser Stephen Miller, also has been noticeably reduced. Meanwhile, Trump’s son-in-law and senior aide Jared Kushner, a longtime Democrat, has been ascendant in the administration. Trump’s more moderate daughter, Ivanka, has also been a key voice.David Bossie, a former Trump deputy campaign manager and a Fox News contributor, told “Fox & Friends” on Thursday the divisions within the Trump team are overblown.“What all these folks are doing is working toward what they believe is the president’s agenda, not their own,” Bossie said. Fox News reported earlier this week that Bannon and Kushner have been working in recent days to make peace.And Trump, to his point on Twitter, has certainly not abandoned some of the most significant positions that won him the White House.Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a Bannon ally, recently visited the U.S.-Mexico border to announce a series of tough actions aimed at curbing illegal immigration and imposing tougher penalties on those who harbor illegal immigrants in America. In doing so, he invoked the name of the man who still vows to build a “big, beautiful” border wall and, in some fashion, make Mexico foot the bill.“This is a new era,” Sessions said Tuesday. “This is the Trump era.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/spicer-sincerely-apologizes-for-mistake-but-arrogant-united-was-dragged-into-apology.html
Spicer sincerely apologizes for mistake, but arrogant United was dragged into apologyYou have to say this about Sean Spicer: As bad a mistake as he made in invoking Hitler, he was quick to abjectly apologize and ask for forgiveness.Which is virtually the opposite of the approach taken by United Airlines, which took a one-time fiasco of a situation and turned it into a full-fledged calamity. It’s simply mind-boggling how badly the CEO has handled the bloody removal of a passenger who paid for his seat and wasn’t bothering anyone.What the White House press secretary did was the classic definition of an unforced error. Defending President Trump’s airstrikes against Syria over Bashar al-Assad’s chemical attack on civilians, Spicer said:“We didn`t use chemical weapons in World War II. You know, you had a--someone who is as despicable as Hitler who didn`t even sink to the--to the--to using chemical weapons.”I was watching live and wondered how Spicer could possibly have made the comparison to a man who used gas to murder 6 million Jews and untold others.The rule of thumb about Hitler analogies is, don’t do it, period. It never ends well.Having failed to dig himself out in the briefing room, it took Spicer less than an hour to issue a clarification: “In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust. I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable.”But that didn’t work, and his blunder led all three network newscasts. By then, Spicer had apologized in separate interviews with Fox, CNN and MSNBC. And yesterday, in a previously scheduled appearance at the Newseum, he went the full contrition route.The spokesman said he “screwed up,” and that to do it during a holy week for Jews and Christians made his mistake “inexcusable” and “reprehensible.” He said his gaffe was “painful” and asked for “forgiveness.”That, of course, was a full-throated apology—which didn’t stop Nancy Pelosi and some pundits from calling for him to resign. And some on social media falsely accused of downplaying the Holocaust. Mollie Hemingway put it well in the Federalist:“Sean Spicer was not pushing Holocaust denial and anyone with the most meager intelligence and sense of fairness would be able to say that. As his statement after the briefing shows, he was for some reason drawing a distinction between combat genocide and other genocide; he was not denying that Hitler killed millions of people during the Holocaust using gas chambers and other means.”But if Spicer took full possession of his mistake, United’s CEO, Oscar Munoz, did the opposite.Everyone was horrified at watching the video of David Dao being dragged off a plane in Chicago, his face bloodied, simply because the flight was overbooked. (I happen to think overbooking is a scam that should be banned, but the initial story was untrue: The flight wasn’t overbooked, the airline just wanted to bump four people to get four of its personnel to another city.)First Munoz engaged in an absurd bit of corporate-speak: “I apologize for having to re-accommodate these customers.”His tone-deaf streak continued by blaming the 69-year-old doctor:“This situation was unfortunately compounded when one of the passengers we politely asked to deplane refused.”Finally, Munoz did on “GMA” yesterday what he should have done immediately:“The first thing I think is important to say is to apologize to Dr. Dao, his family, the passengers on that flight, our customers, our employees. That is not who our family at United is. And you saw us at a bad moment and this could never, will never, happen again on a United Airlines flight.”Keep in mind that United had offered the bumped passengers $800 apiece. By refusing to go higher, I’d say the airline bought itself $20 million in bad publicity. And initially, at least, its stock lost $1.4 billion. The company is now a symbol of corporate insensitivity. And the CEO is reducing to insisting he will not resign.But I do have to rip the media on one aspect of the story—trashing Dao over his past.The New York Post: “Doctor Dragged Off Flight Was Convicted of Trading Drugs for Sex.”People: “Revealed: All About the Doctor Dragged Off Overbooked United Flight—And His Troubled Past.”The Daily Mail: “Doctor dragged off United flight was felon who traded prescription drugs for secret gay sex with patient half his age and took them himself.”Dao lives in Kentucky, and the Louisville Courier-Journal handled it more responsibly, including this sentence in a longer piece: “Dao had surrendered his medical license in February 2005 after being convicted of drug-related offenses, according to documents filed with the Kentucky Board of Medical Licensure last June.”While these decade-old facts may be true, they have no relevance to Dao being dragged off the plane and injured, with no claim that he was an unruly passenger. Some media outlets, in effect, have victimized him again.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/13/white-house-reportedly-has-plans-in-place-to-buildup-deportation-force.html
White House reportedly has plans in place to buildup deportation forceThe Trump administration is reportedly working to build a nationwide deportation force and is even considering to drop the polygraph test and physical fitness exams for potential agents, the Washington Post reported Wednesday.The paper, citing an internal Department of Homeland Security memo.Trump seeks to bring in an additional 5,000 border agents and 10,000 ICE agents. That pricetag could cost up to $100 million, the agency said.Homeland Security has also found locations that could increase detention space, but may not be able to secure the necessary funding for it, The Post reported.Border Patrol is also looking to possibly hold immigration-court hearings through video conferences at or near U.S. ports of entry if Mexico agrees to the procedure, according to the paper. The U.S. could also send judges to so-called “port courts,” thought it could cost $400,000 per location.Republican lawmakers have proposed a delay of the $1.5 billion for the wall and $2.6 billion for added security until after a new spending bill is approved.Border Patrol is also looking to possibly hold immigration-court hearings through video conferences at or near U.S. ports of entry if Mexico agrees to the procedure, according to the paper. The U.S. could also send judges to so-called “port courts,” thought it could cost $400,000 per location.White House officials told the Washington Post the plans are still in the preliminary stages and have not been reviewed by senior Homeland Security officials.Trump’s January executive orders call for ICE to expand a program where the agency grants local law enforcement immigration powers that are usually reserved only for the federal government.ICE is reviewing applications from 18 new jurisdictions and added that 50 other jurisdictions are interested in participating in the program, DHS said.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/spicer-trump-values-bannons-commitment-to-team.html
Spicer: Trump values Bannon's 'commitment to the team'White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer tried Wednesday to knock down reports that President Trump's chief strategist, Steve Bannon, had fallen out of favor, telling Fox News' "The O'Reilly Factor" that the president "values Steve's commitment to the team."Spicer spoke after Trump told the New York Post, "I like Steve, but you have to remember he was not involved in my campaign until very late."TRUMP DOWNPLAYS BANNON'S CAMPAIGN ROLE AMID REPORTS OF INFIGHTINGThe president also told columist Michael Goodwin that he had instructed Bannon and adviser Jared Kushner to work out their reported differences, saying, "Steve is a good guy, but I told them to straighten it out or I will."[Image: 'The O'Reilly Factor' examines the latest from the West Wing and the surveillance controversy ]Spicer told host Dana Perino, herself a former White House press secretary, that Trump "wants to make sure that everybody understands [that] the policies that this president is now espousing ... are policies that he’s held for in some cases, two, three, four decades. And I think the line may have been blurred a little bit."He wanted to make it very clear, but at the same express confidence in the team that’s here and the talent that he has assembled," Spicer added.Spicer also addressed his now-infamous remark Tuesday that Adolf Hitler did not use chemical weapons against his own people, a statement for which he later apologized.SPICER APOLOGIZES FOR HITLER COMMENTS"It was just unfortunate that my mistake helped create a distraction from the great work that [Trump's] doing for this country and frankly throughout the world," Spicer said. "My job is to help do what I can to advance this thing, not get in the way of it. Unfortunately, yesterday I did just that."Spicer said he had spoken to Trump about his comment, but did not specify what the president had told him.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/trump-says-russia-relations-may-be-at-all-time-low-praises-tillerson-trip.html
Trump says Russia relations may be at ‘all-time low,’ praises Tillerson tripPresident Trump declared Wednesday that U.S.-Russia relations “may be at an all-time low,” as he praised his top diplomat Rex Tillerson for working to address those tensions in Moscow – and left open whether ties between the two countries can be mended.“Right now, we’re not getting along with Russia at all, we may be at an all-time low,” Trump said, during a White House press conference with Jens Stoltenberg, NATO's secretary-general.Tillerson gave a similar assessment during a press conference with Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, after meeting at the Kremlin with Vladimir Putin for nearly two hours Wednesday.Tensions between the U.S. and Russia have flared since last week’s U.S. missile strikes against Syria’s Assad regime, Russia’s ally, in response to a chemical weapons attack. Trump stood by the decision on Wednesday, calling Bashar Assad a “butcher” and saying: “I have absolutely no doubt we did the right thing.”Asked whether it's possible Syria could have launched the attack without Russia's knowledge, Trump gave a mixed answer, saying it's "possible" but "probably unlikely."“I would like to think that they didn’t know, but certainly they could have, they were there,” he said.The president said it would be “fantastic” if the U.S. and Russia eventually get along but could not say whether that would happen.Trump, meanwhile, dialed back his pre-inauguration criticism that NATO is “obsolete,” citing more involvement in fighting terrorism. “I said it was obsolete. It’s no longer obsolete,” he said.Stoltenberg agreed that “NATO can and must do more in the global fight against terrorism.”Trump also touched on his efforts to address the threat from North Korea and said broadly, “Right now the world is a mess. ... By the time I’m finished, it’s going to be a lot better place to live in, because right now it’s nasty.”Addressing ties with another global power, Trump said he and Chinese President Xi Jinping had “very good chemistry” during their meeting last week and voiced hope that the country can help with North Korea. He said he told Xi that helping with Pyongyang could pave the way for a good trade deal, but the U.S. would “go it alone” if necessary.“I think he wants to help. We’ll see whether or not he does,” Trump said. He praised China for, just minutes earlier, abstaining from a United Nations Security Council resolution that would have condemned the use of chemical weapons in Syria. Russia vetoed the resolution calling for a speedy investigation into the attack.While Tillerson was working to ease tensions Wednesday with Russia, those tensions could help assure European allies who feared the administration would go easy on Russia. During his 2016 campaign, Trump said he would decide whether to honor the commitment to protect the Baltic republics against Russian aggression, based on whether those countries "have fulfilled their obligations to us."He has since made his support of NATO allies clear, but has reiterated his stance that European members need to meet their end of the bargain if they are to continue benefiting from the military alliance.The Trump administration says it is spending a disproportionate share on defense compared with its 27 partners, and that it expects action by the time Trump meets with other alliance leaders on May 25.NATO leaders pledged in 2014 to halt defense spending cuts and move toward a guideline target of 2 percent of gross domestic product within a decade. Only four other nations currently meet the target: Britain, Estonia, Greece and Poland. White House officials said in advance of Wednesday’s meeting that the administration still wants other nations to spend more on defense.Stoltenberg backed Trump’s goal on Wednesday, saying, “We know that we all need to contribute our fair share,” and suggesting Trump’s focus on the issue has been helpful.Trump reiterated Wednesday that NATO members must “meet their financial obligations” and “many have not been doing that.”The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is a military alliance of European and North American democracies created after World War II to strengthen international cooperation as a counter the rise of the Soviet Union.The United States, NATO's most powerful member, spends more on defense than all the others combined — 3.61 percent of GDP in 2016, according to NATO estimates. U.S. spending, too, has tapered off in recent years.Trump on Tuesday also signed off on Montenegro's upcoming accession into NATO. Russia strongly opposes the move in a region it considers part of its strategic sphere of interest.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/tillerson-says-us-russia-ties-at-low-point-calls-for-easing-tensions-after-putin-meeting.html
Tillerson says US-Russia ties at ‘low point,’ calls for easing tensions after Putin meetingSecretary of State Rex Tillerson held a hastily arranged meeting in Moscow late Wednesday with Russian President Vladimir Putin as he worked to ease tensions over Syria and other global crises – even as he and President Trump, from afar, continued to pressure Putin over his alliance with Bashar Assad.Tillerson, speaking frankly during a press conference in Moscow alongside Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, said he told Putin that U.S.-Russia relations have hit a “low point.” He stressed the need to improve ties.“There is a low level of trust between our two countries. The world’s two foremost nuclear powers cannot have this kind of relationship,” Tillerson said.Those tensions have mounted since Trump ordered a missile strike last week on an airbase controlled by the Assad government, in response to a chemical weapons attack. But Lavrov said Wednesday that the U.S. and Russia have agreed on the need for a United Nations probe of the Syrian chemical attack, a step that could dial down the rhetoric between the two nations for now.Washington blames Russia's ally Assad for that attack, while Moscow says Syrian rebels are responsible. That disagreement was on display Wednesday, as Tillerson stood by U.S. claims that the evidence points to Assad – while clarifying the U.S. has no indications of Russian involvement.Lavrov, speaking through a translator, also said special envoys would be appointed to discuss the “irritants” that have “piled up” mostly under the Obama administration.Citing the countries’ disagreements, Tillerson said, “We need to attempt to put an end to this steady degradation.”The news conference came after Putin met the top American diplomat for almost two hours to see if they could rescue relations between the world's mightiest military powers. Russia's alleged meddling in the U.S. presidential election also hovered over the first face-to-face encounter between Putin and a Trump administration Cabinet member.Both Tillerson and Lavrov cited the goal of defeating ISIS as a common objective.Lavrov also that Putin could restore a military hotline with the U.S. if Washington focuses on fighting the Islamic State and other extremist groups.Tillerson, the first Trump Cabinet official to visit Russia, traveled to Moscow just days after the Trump administration launched missile strikes on the airbase in Syria.Tillerson ratcheted up his rhetoric en route to Moscow earlier this week, saying “the reign of the Assad family is coming to an end” and challenging Russia to reconsider its alliance with the government in Damascus.Trump also told Fox Business Network’s Maria Bartiromo that Putin is backing “an evil person” in Syria, and it’s “very bad for Russia.”At the same time, Trump made clear he’s pushing for peace in Syria. He said, “we’re not going into Syria,” but said pressure will be on Russia to ensure peace.“If Russia didn’t go in and back this animal, you wouldn’t have a problem right now,” he said.Earlier Wednesday, during a forum at The Newseum in Washington, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer was asked about what could be on the table at a Putin-Tillerson meeting. He spoke to their common interests.“I think there is a shared interest in defeating ISIS in the region that we have a national security concern that should align with their national security concern," he said.Spicer had tough words for Russia's alliance with Assad, however."Russia right now is an island," he said. "It's Russia, North Korea and Iran ... Russia is among that group the only non-failed state." He said Russia is "isolating" itself by standing by Assad.Lavrov said Wednesday that Syrians should determine their future, and the objective should not be to “eliminate a political leader from the chessboard.”The Associated Press and Fox News' Rich Edson contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/trump-replaces-federal-hiring-freeze-with-agency-cuts-to-end-billions-wasted.html
Trump replaces federal hiring freeze with agency cuts to end billions 'wasted'The White House on Wednesday ordered a plan to reduce and streamline the federal government, replacing the hiring freeze President Trump implemented upon taking office in January.“Billions and billions of dollars are being wasted on activities that are not delivering results for hardworking American taxpayers,” said Trump, who has put his Office of Management and Budget in charge of the effort.The directive was ordered Wednesday along with a 14-page plan to federal agencies that details the president’s objective to hire in areas of high priority and cut back in others.The agencies now have until June 30 to develop a draft plan to “maximize the performance of government workers,” and a total 180 days to submit final plans to the White House, according to the directive.The final plans and “input from the American people and each agency” will be part of Trump’s fiscal 2019 budget, the directive also states.“The hiring freeze was sort of a way to stop everything while the new management team came in,” Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget, told Fox News’ “Fox & Friends.”"Now that we’ve had a couple of months … some folks are going to be allowed to hire back," he said. "But in other areas … we’re going to have these strategical, surgical reductions to the workforce."The memorandum Trump signed in January imposed an across-the-board hiring freeze for essentially the entire federal government, except for the military and for positions deemed necessary for national security and public safety.As part of the memorandum, Trump gave Mulvaney three months to come up with a long-term plan to reduce the federal government's size.The directive does not include agency-specific goals or limits. But Mulvaney has made clear that agencies targeted for significant budget cuts in Trump's first budget proposal, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, will likely be expected to make significant cuts to their workforces.And agencies that Trump wants to spend more on, like the Department of Veterans Affairs, would be expected to see their payrolls rise.Trump's budget blueprint calls for a 6 percent increase in VA funding, mostly to pay for rising health costs to treat veterans. The VA is one of three agencies slated for more money amid major cuts to other domestic programs.Mulvaney declined Tuesday, when first announcing the plan, to say how many jobs, overall, the administration intends to eliminate.One possibility is moving the National Nuclear Security Administration from the Department of Energy to the Department of Defense.However, Mulvaney acknowledged that many such changes would require congressional sign-off. Democrats have so far opposed nearly every Trump proposal.Despite the earlier order, the federal government added 2,000 workers in February and 4,000 in January, according to Labor Department figures. Several departments, including the State Department, were granted exemptions from the hiring freeze after voicing concerns.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/trump-downplays-bannons-campaign-role-amid-reports-infighting.html
Trump downplays Bannon's campaign role amid reports of infightingAmid a flood of reports detailing division among the upper echelon of his White House, President Trump on Tuesday night refused to firmly back his controversial chief strategist, Steve Bannon – going so far as to minimize Bannon’s role in the underdog presidential campaign.Bannon, the former executive chair of Breitbart News, served as the Trump campaign’s CEO during the final, successful push to Election Day. But philosophical differences with other top Trump advisers – including Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner – have dominated recent reports, coming in the wake of the failure of several Bannon-favored initiatives, such as Trump’s travel ban, which has been stalled twice in the courts.“I like Steve, but you have to remember he was not involved in my campaign until very late,” Trump told The New York Post. “I had already beaten all the senators and all the governors, and I didn’t know Steve. I’m my own strategist and it wasn’t like I was going to change strategies because I was facing crooked Hillary.”BANNON, KUSHNER MAKE PEACE FOR NOW, INSIDERS SAYOstensibly referring to last weekend’s Kushner-Bannon powwow, which Fox News reported was organized to mend fences between the key aides, Trump said: “Steve is a good guy, but I told them to straighten it out or I will.”Bannon, a far-right hero trusted by Trump’s base, came aboard a waterlogged Trump campaign on Aug. 17. The day before his involvement was announced, a pair of Washington Post polls showed Trump losing Virginia and Florida to Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton by sizeable margins.At the time, Trump was suffering from numerous self-inflicted wounds – such as a war-of-words with a Gold Star family – and was facing defections from many congressional Republicans. Bannon, along with campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, helped orient Trump to a more offensive footing ahead of the November victory.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/report-trump-administration-officials-clashed-with-g7-ministers-over-climate-policy.html
Report: Trump administration officials clashed with G7 ministers over climate policyTrump administration officials reportedly clashed with G-7 energy ministers after pushing their pro-nuclear power and pro-fossil fuels agenda during meetings this week.G-7 officials, led by European energy ministers, refused to agree to stronger language pushing for fossil fuels in their joint statement unless the U.S. assured them they would stay in the landmark Paris climate deal, officials briefed on the talks told Politico Tuesday. A tense meeting among the ministers in Rome Monday ended with the officials scrapping a joint statement altogether.The U.S.’ coal push became an issue for everyone involved, one G-7 negotiator told Politico. The negotiator added that Canada, Japan and European officials were frustrated over Trump’s position.The negotiator added that the U.S.’ refusal to discuss the Paris climate deal in the joint statement raised European’s officials red flags, underscoring the widening gap between Trump and allies over climate change.In a draft of a statement proposed by G-7 countries, obtained by Politico, U.S. officials pushed for stronger backing of clean coal and wanted to add a section that promoted nuclear energy. U.S. officials nixed a line that said G-7 nations would "take the lead in tackling the challenges of electricity systems with high shares of variable renewable energy and in addressing the resilience of the electricity system.”The spat among ministers during the meetings led to the scrapping of the joint statement. Instead, Italy’s economic development minister and summit chair release a summary of the meeting.Energy Secretary Rick Perry said the Trump administration "is in the process of reviewing many of its policies and reserves its position on this issue," the summary said.Trump signed an executive order last month undoing a slew of Obama-era climate change regulations. He has also threatened to take the U.S. out of the landmark Paris climate deal.Press Secretary Sean Spicer said last month an official decision on the U.S.’ position in the climate pact would be made during a G-7 meeting in May.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/sessions-border-is-not-open-please-dont-come.html
Sessions: 'The border is not open. Please don't come'Attorney General Jeff Sessions told Fox News' "Hannity" Tuesday night that the Trump administration is trying to send a strong message to anyone thinking of trying to enter America illegally."The border is not open. Please don't come." Sessions said in an interview with host Sean Hannity. "You will be apprehended if you do come and you will be deported promptly. If you’re a criminal, you will be prosecuted, and if you assault our officers, we’re going to come at you [like] a ton of bricks."Sessions said President Trump's rhetoric was having an effect, citing a recent Department of Homeland Security report indicating that fewer people are attempting to cross America's southern border illegally.ARRESTS AT MEXICO BORDER REACH LOWEST LEVEL SINCE 2000"I knew strong Presidential leadership, unlike the wishy-washy-ness we’ve seen in the past, would impact the flow, but not as much as we’ve seen already," Sessions said. "The numbers are down 70 percent since President Obama left office. So it’s really a remarkable achievement."The attorney general spoke after wrapping up a visit to the U.S.-Mexico border, where he urged federal prosecutors to focus on immigration-related crimes, such as human trafficking.Sessions also responded to reports that GOP lawmakers were dropping funds for Trump's proposed border wall from a spending bill being prepared for later this month.SESSIONS VOWS TO CONFRONT CARTELS, GANGS ON VISIT TO US-MEXICO BORDER"I believe he will get funding for the wall. I can’t imagine Congress to deny him that," said Sessions, before adding, "It doesn’t have to be every foot of the entire 1,700-mile border ... But a wall, a barrier, multiplies the ability of our border patrol and customs officers to be effective ... So, this is the way to go."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/many-government-jobs-to-remain-unfilled-despite-trumps-lift-on-hiring-freeze.html
Many government jobs to remain unfilled despite Trump's lift on hiring freezeMany federal government jobs will remain unfilled despite President Trump’s plans to lift the hiring freeze Wednesday, Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said.Mulvaney told reporters Tuesday that the move was part of the president’s campaign to “drain the swamp” in Washington and save taxpayers money. The White House hopes to overhaul the executive branch and reduce its work force."It does not mean that the agencies will be free to hire willy-nilly," Mulvaney said. "What we're doing tomorrow is replacing the across-the-board hiring freeze that we put into place on Day One in office and replacing it with a smarter plan, a more strategic plan, a more surgical plan."Trump signed a memorandum in January freezing large portions of federal government hiring, barring the military and positions deemed necessary for national security and public safety. As part of the memorandum, Trump gave the Office of Management and Budget 90 days to come up with a long-term plan to reduce the federal government's size.While the guidance to be issued Wednesday does not contain agency-specific hiring goals or limits, Mulvaney said that agencies targeted with significant budget cuts in Trump's first budget proposal, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, would be expected to make significant cuts to their workforces.Agencies that Trump wants to spend more on, like the Department of Veterans Affairs, would be expected to see their payrolls rise.The budget blueprint calls for a 6 percent increase in VA funding, mostly to pay for rising health costs to treat veterans.Mulvaney declined to say how many jobs, overall, the administration intends to eliminate, but said: "I think it probably goes without saying that net, we think we could run the government more efficiently than the previously administration."Under the guidance, agencies will also have until June to submit drafts for overhauling their workforces and coming up with ideas for streamlining operations as part of a larger effort to restructure the federal government. The administration is surveying the public, academics, lawmakers and others for ideas such as potentially moving the National Nuclear Security Administration to the Department of Defense from the Department of Energy, where it currently resides."The president of the United States has asked all of in the executive branch to start from scratch," Mulvaney said. He acknowledged that many such changes would require congressional sign-off."We're not trying to ram it down their throats," he said.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/11/carter-page-fbi-reportedly-obtained-fisa-warrant-to-monitor-ex-trump-adviser.html
Carter Page: FBI reportedly obtained FISA warrant to monitor ex-Trump adviserThe FBI obtained a court order last summer that granted them permission to monitor the communications of former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page, the Washington Post reported Tuesday.The so-called FISA warrant was granted as part of an ongoing investigation into possible links between Russian officials and members of the Trump campaign, the paper reported.The FISA court and its orders are highly secretive. Judges grant permission for surveillance if they agree there's probable cause that the target is an agent of a foreign power. Though the standard is a high bar to meet, applications are hardly ever denied.In a statement to Fox News, Page said he was "excited the truth is coming out."EX-TRUMP ADVISER CARTER PAGE RIPS 'FALSE NARRATIVE' ON RUSSIA COLLUSION"It shows how low the Clinton/Obama regime went to destroy our democracy and suppress dissidents who did not fully support their failed foreign policy," Page added. "It will be interesting to see what comes out when the unjustified basis for those FISA requests are more fully disclosed over time."The Post reported that a 90-day warrant was issued for Page and has been renewed more than once by the FISA court.According to the paper, the government's application for the FISA warrant cited contacts Page had with a Russian intelligence operative in 2013. According to court documents filed earlier this month in connection with a separate espionage case, the Russian tried to recruit Page as an intelligence source.Page, who was working as an energy consultant at the time, acknowledged that he "shared basic immaterial information and publicly available research documents" with the operative, Victor Podobnyy. He described the information as "nothing more than a few samples from the far more detailed lectures" he delivered at New York University in 2013.In an interview with Fox News last month, Page said he had been victimized by a "false narrative" surrounding his contacts with Russian officials."I did nothing that could even possibly be viewed as helping them in any way," Page said at the time.Page was hired by the Trump campaign as a foreign policy adviser in March 2016, but left the campaign that September because, as he put it, "these stories kept coming out based on the dodgy dossier."That's a reference to the now-infamous "Trump Dossier" created by former British Intelligence operative Christopher Steele, working for a U.S. political research group called Fusion GPS on behalf of both Republicans and Democrats.Page's relationship with Russia began to draw scrutiny during the campaign after he visited Moscow in July 2016 for a speech at the New Economic School. While Page said he was traveling in a personal capacity, the school cited his role in the Trump campaign in advertising the speech.Page was sharply critical of the U.S. in his remarks, saying Washington has a "hypocritical focus on ideas such as democratization, inequality, corruption and regime change."Days later, Page talked with Russia's ambassador to the U.S. at an event on the sidelines of the Republican National Convention. Attorney General Jeff Sessions spoke with the Russian envoy at the same event, a conversation he failed to reveal when asked about contacts with Russians during his Senate confirmation hearings.Those who served on the Trump campaign's foreign policy advisory committee tell the Associated Press they had limited contact with Page.But in a letter Page sent to the Senate intelligence committee last month, he cast himself as a regular presence in Trump Tower, where the campaign was headquartered."I have frequently dined in Trump Grill, had lunch in Trump CafΘ, had coffee meetings in the Starbucks at Trump Tower, attended events and spent many hours in campaign headquarters on the fifth floor last year," Page wrote. He also noted that his office building in New York "is literally connected to the Trump Tower building by an atrium."Fox News' Catherine Herridge and Pamela Browne and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/11/trump-warns-china-on-north-korea-help-solve-problem-or-will.html
Trump warns China on North Korea: Help solve the problem or 'we will'President Trump on Tuesday said North Korea “is looking for trouble” and vowed to get the murderous regime of dictator Kim Jong-Un under control with or without China’s help.Trump sent the warning in a pair of tweets just days after he met with Chinese President Xi Jinping. China traditionally has acted as a counterweight on North Korea, helping to moderate some actions of the isolated country. Trump indicated a favorable trade deal could await China if they stepped up pressure on North Korea; however, Trump also appeared ready to reign in the provocative nation on his own.“I explained to the President of China that a trade deal with the U.S. will be far better for them if they solve the North Korean problem!” Trump tweeted.I explained to the President of China that a trade deal with the U.S. will be far better for them if they solve the North Korean problem!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2017He added: “North Korea is looking for trouble. If China decides to help, that would be great. If not, we will solve the problem without them! U.S.A.”North Korea is looking for trouble. If China decides to help, that would be great. If not, we will solve the problem without them! U.S.A.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2017The tweets echo Trump’s comments to The Financial Times earlier this month, in which he spoke cryptically but forcefully about North Korea.“China has great influence over North Korea. And China will either decide to help us with North Korea, or they won’t,” Trump said. “And if they do, that will be very good for China. And if they don’t, it won’t be good for anyone. If China is not going to solve North Korea, we will. That is all I am telling you.”North Korea has drawn U.S. ire recently following a series of ballistic missile tests. There is also fear the country’s nuclear program is progressing.Pyongyang said Monday it would “hold the U.S. wholly accountable for the catastrophic consequences” after the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier and its battle group was sent to waters off the Korean Peninsula. The U.S. and South Korea are engaging in war games in the region, which North Korea is suspicious of, viewing the exercise as a practice for a hypothetical invasion of North Korea.Trump's decision to bomb a Syrian airbase last week in response to the war-torn country's chemical weapon attack on a rebel-held area also may have strengthened the perception that Trump could consider a military solution to the North Korea issue. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson seemingly did nothing to downplay that possibility in recent, somewhat ambiguous comments.“President Trump is willing to act when governments and actors cross the line,” Tillerson said.Adding to tensions, The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday that activity appeared to be taking place at a North Korean nuclear test site ahead of the April 15 anniversary of the communist country's founding.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/11/100-day-watch-why-every-white-house-meeting-seems-to-leak.html
The 100-day watch: Why every White House meeting seems to leakThe White House is apparently worried about Donald Trump’s presidency being judged by the coming 100-day mark, that artificial benchmark essentially created by the media.And so, in classic fashion, communications officials convened a meeting, details of which were immediately leaked to Politico.It increasingly seems that two officials can’t exchange words in a White House bathroom without it immediately hitting the web. As a journalist I often benefit from talking to officials on background or off the record, but there’s no question that the flood of leaks from this administration—as Kellyanne Conway acknowledged to me in a Sunday interview—isn’t helping the president.Even in a five-day stretch in which Trump unleashed airstrikes against Syria and saw Neil Gorsuch join the Supreme Court, the stories about jockeying and feuding between Steve Bannon, Jared Kushner and others continued to draw considerable media attention. Trump did mention at yesterday’s Gorsuch swearing-in that he had gotten his man confirmed in the first 100 days.The 100-day milestone is, of course, a snapshot (yes, I’ve used it as well, and yes, Fox has a show called “The First 100 Days”). But it’s also somewhat arbitrary. When we look back at history, we don’t particularly focus on what JFK, LBJ, Reagan, the Bushes, Clinton or Obama accomplished by April 29.But since the media are going to make it a huge deal, it’s a ritual in which every administration has to engage.So we’ve got an unnamed White House official telling Politico: “One hundred days is the marker, and we’ve got essentially two-and-a-half weeks to turn everything around. This is going to be a monumental task.”This is called trumpeting the communications strategy before you carry out the communications strategy, thereby making everything that follows look like PR packaging.But it gets worse.The session, convened by the new communications director, Mike Dubke, was described as dividing into three groups, scribbling ideas with whiteboards and markers, and that drew anonymous criticism. “It made me feel like I was back in 5th grade,” a White House aide told Politico.Dubke was quoted as saying it was nothing more than “a brainstorming session” and that he wished skeptics had spoken up to have “an open and honest conversation” rather than running to the press. He also said his notion that the first three-plus months had to be “rebranded” was misinterpreted, but that they did need to brand it before the media did it for them.What’s behind these leaks? People tend to dish anonymous criticism when they’re frustrated by their colleagues or have no confidence that internal complaints will be heeded. And there appear to be multiple sources here.The press, meanwhile, is all geared up to report on the early stumbles, from two immigration orders blocked by the courts to the failure of the ObamaCare replacement bill, and that’s fair game. But there is also the Keystone pipeline, the killing of the Pacific trade pact, a boosting of economic confidence, an assault on regulations, and now the Syria airstrikes and the successful SCOTUS pick.Any new administration is a work in progress. As the year wears on, we’ll see whether Trump can break through on some combination of tax cuts and infrastructure projects. And, as we’ve been reminded in recent days, a president is also judged on his ability to respond to unforeseen crises.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/07/three-democrats-break-ranks-to-support-gorsuch.html
Three Democrats break ranks to support GorsuchThey are: Sens. Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D., Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and Joe Donnelly, D-Ind.All are moderate Democrats facing challenging reelection bids next year in red states.Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., who voted to cut off debate Thursday and had co-introduced Gorsuch -- also from Colorado -- at his confirmation hearing, voted against Gorsuch in the end.All Republicans present voted for Gorsuch. The final tally was 54-45.While most Democrats adamantly opposed President Trump’s nominee, he advanced to a final vote after Republicans overcame a Democratic filibuster by changing Senate precedent – and allowing the nomination to advance with just a simple majority of senators.Gorsuch is expected to be sworn in Monday.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/07/gorsuch-confirmed-to-supreme-court.html
Gorsuch confirmed to Supreme CourtThe Senate confirmed Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court on Friday, filling the critical ninth seat that has been vacant for over a year and capping a tumultuous debate that saw Republicans overhaul the way the chamber operates in order to overcome what they described as an unprecedented Democratic filibuster.The 54-45 vote, in which three Democrats crossed party lines to support the appeals court justice, is expected to restore a 5-4 conservative tilt on the bench. Once sworn in, Gorsuch will join the court and begin to hear cases, in the seat once held by the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February 2016.“He’s going to make the American people proud,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said.President Trump congratulated Gorsuch via his official White House Twitter account:Congratulations to an exceptionally qualified and respected judge on his confirmation to the Supreme Court! #SCOTUS https://t.co/itTom467MT— President Trump (@POTUS) April 7, 2017Republicans lauded Gorsuch as an eminently qualified jurist and a fitting successor to Scalia. But Democrats accused him of giving evasive answers during his confirmation hearing, and claimed his past rulings showed a tendency to favor business interests over workers. More broadly, Democrats remain furious that Republicans under McConnell’s leadership blocked consideration of former President Barack Obama’s nominee Merrick Garland, in turn allowing Trump to nominate Gorsuch.SEE HOW YOUR SENATORS VOTEDThese partisan tensions exploded on the Senate floor this week, as Democrats mounted a filibuster against Gorsuch, prompting Republicans to use what’s known as the “nuclear option” Thursday to force a final vote.Each party blamed the other for the escalation, accusing the other side of damaging long-standing institutions.“Damage was done to our democracy,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., said Friday. “Raw political power has been exercised to break the rules and norms of this body.”But McConnell claimed that Republicans only triggered the nuclear option to “restore norms” that Democrats had defied.Republicans pursued that course after Democrats blocked the nominee on Thursday, denying him the 60 votes needed to proceed to a final roll call. McConnell in turn executed a series of parliamentary maneuvers that resulted in the threshold being lowered to 51 votes. With that standard, Gorsuch easily advanced to the final vote on Friday.McConnell said he made the move “for the sake of our country.”McConnell’s predecessor as Senate majority leader Harry Reid, now retired, took the first step down the “nuclear” road by lowering the threshold for other nominees in 2013 – a controversial move Republicans frequently brought up on the road to Friday’s final vote.But lowering the threshold for a Supreme Court pick is a more significant step. It means for the foreseeable future, the minority party will have significantly less leverage to oppose any nominee to the highest court in the land, no matter who is president.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said there will be “less faith in the Supreme Court” going forward.Republicans say Democrats have been unfair to an otherwise qualified nominee and have wrongly cast him as an ideologue.“Rarely has this body seen a nominee to the Supreme Court so well-qualified, so skilled, [with] such command of constitutional jurisprudence, with such an established record of independence and such judicial temperament,” Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said Friday.All Republicans present voted yes on Friday; Sen. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., struggling with health issues, did not vote. Vice President Pence presided.The three Democrats who voted for Gorsuch were North Dakota's Heidi Heitkamp, West Virginia's Joe Manchin and Indiana's Joe Donnelly -- all moderate Democrats facing challenging reelection bids next year in red states.Gorsuch is expected to take the oath on Monday.Fox News' Chad Pergram and Bill Mears contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/06/republicans-go-nuclear-bust-through-democratic-filibuster-on-gorsuch.html
Republicans go ‘nuclear,’ bust through Democratic filibuster on GorsuchSenate Republicans deployed the so-called “nuclear option” Thursday in their drive to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, dramatically changing the way the Senate does business in order to overcome a Democratic filibuster.In a fast-paced chain of events that clears the way for Gorsuch to be confirmed by Friday morning, majority Republicans changed Senate precedent so that a high court nominee can advance to a final vote with a simple majority of 51 senators, as opposed to 60.By Senate standards, this was ground-shaking.Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., declared he did so to “restore norms” and get past what he called an “unprecedented” Democratic filibuster.Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., countered that the changes could send the Senate and the nomination process “over the cliff.”GORSUCH VOTE TRACKERRepublicans succeeded in making the change on a party-line vote Thursday afternoon. The body then swiftly took another, 55-45 vote to end debate and tee up a final confirmation vote expected at 11:30 a.m. ET Friday.This was after Democrats initially blocked Gorsuch in a filibuster earlier in the day. Four Democrats broke ranks -- Sens. Michael Bennet, D-Colo.; Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D.; Joe Donnelly, D-Ind.; and Joe Manchin, D-W.Va. – but Republicans still fell short of the 60 votes needed to proceed, prompting McConnell to overhaul the way the Senate works.He said he did so “for the sake of our country.”Bennet later opposed Gorsuch on the do-over vote.While congressional Republicans and President Trump are now virtually guaranteed to get Gorsuch on the high court, the impact of the events that played out Thursday could be felt for years, if not decades, to come. Each party blamed the other for the escalation and the breakdown in the Senate’s parliamentary decorum.Indeed, McConnell’s predecessor as Senate majority leader Harry Reid, now retired, took the first step down the “nuclear” road by lowering the threshold for other nominees in 2013 – a controversial move Republicans frequently brought up on the road to Thursday’s proceedings.But lowering the threshold for a Supreme Court pick is a more significant step. It means for the foreseeable future, the minority party will have significantly less leverage to oppose any nominee to the highest court in the land, no matter who is president.Schumer said there will be “less faith in the Supreme Court” going forward.McConnell, kicking off Thursday’s session, blasted Democrats for the filibuster attempt and accused them of driving the upper chamber to this point. He said their opposition to Gorsuch isn’t about the nominee but “the man who nominated him” – and part of an “extreme escalation in the left’s never-ending drive to politicize the courts and the confirmation process.”Republicans say Democrats have been unfair to an otherwise eminently qualified nominee and have wrongly cast him as an ideologue.However, despite exhaustive confirmation hearings where Gorsuch, like many nominees before him, declined to take clear stances on hot-button issues, Democrats largely are convinced he would be a staunch conservative in the mold of the late Antonin Scalia, whose seat he would fill on the nine-member court. They pointed to past rulings on cases where he sided with businesses against workers, though his allies maintain he was merely applying the law as written. Democrats also are still furious over Republicans’ refusal to consider former President Barack Obama’s nominee, Merrick Garland.Democrats, meanwhile, howled over the GOP majority’s move to deploy the “nuclear option” to get Gorsuch approved in the end. They warn it will drastically change the way the Senate operates for the worse.“It doesn’t have to be this way,” Schumer said. “The answer is not to change the rules, it’s to change the nominee.”He also said Gorsuch “may very well turn out to be one of the most conservative justices on the bench.”The actual deployment of the nuclear option was cloaked in obscure parliamentary-speak.McConnell, after the initial Democratic filibuster, asked for a simple majority vote “on all nominations.”The presiding officer said the point of order was not sustained. McConnell, with seven fateful words, said: “I appeal the ruling of the chair.”His party backed him, eliminating the 60-vote requirement for Supreme Court nominees.Fox News’ Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/06/what-is-nuclear-option-how-mcconnell-plans-to-get-gorsuch-confirmed.html
What is the nuclear option? How McConnell plans to get Gorsuch confirmedSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is preparing to deploy the “nuclear option” to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch.So what exactly is the nuclear option?In short, it’s an extreme parliamentary maneuver to change the Senate precedent and lower the bar to break a filibuster on a Supreme Court nominee from 60 votes to 51 votes.Here’s how this will likely go down over the course of Thursday and Friday:McConnell filed cloture to end debate on Gorsuch’s nomination Tuesday. By rule, a cloture petition to break a filibuster “ripens” two days later. The Senate then automatically takes a vote to halt debate (known as “invoking cloture”) one hour after the Senate meets.This will happen Thursday.It is the current precedent of the Senate to require 60 yeas to stop debate. The problem for Senate Republicans is they only have 52 members. Four Democrats will vote with the GOP to end debate: Sens. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D., Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and Joe Donnelly, D-Ind. The latter three will also vote to confirm Gorsuch. However, Bennet, who co-introduced Gorsuch at his confirmation hearing, has not said if he will vote to confirm Gorsuch. Bennet has only said he will vote to break the filibuster.So, Republicans are four votes shy of ending the filibuster. This is where the nuclear option comes in.The cloture vote itself will likely fail, ostensibly blocking Gorsuch’s nomination from going to confirmation. But this is the key place for McConnell to attempt to change the precedent. Expect McConnell to switch his vote on the cloture tally from yea to nay so he can be on the “prevailing side” (in this case, the nays). That gives McConnell the right to ask for a revote.That only needs 51 yeas. Then McConnell can make a motion for the Senate to revote the failed cloture vote. Again, this just needs a majority vote.Now the Senate is back on the cloture vote. Nothing is debatable at this point. In other words, the Senate can’t extend matters by talking.This is where McConnell drops the bomb.McConnell will likely raise a point of order that “the vote on cloture under Rule 22 for all nominations to the Supreme Court is by a majority vote.”The presiding officer, upon advice from the parliamentarian, will likely rule against McConnell. The officer will cite the Senate’s established precedent of 60 votes, not 51, to break a filibuster. The officer will then declare that the “point of order is not sustained.”But this is where the Senate can establish a new precedent. McConnell will then ask the Senate to vote to overrule the presiding officer. Expect some fancy language like “Shall the decision of the chair stand as the judgment of the Senate?”Another roll call vote starts. In this case, Republicans will vote nay, as they don’t want the chair’s ruling to stand. They are voting to establish a new precedent. In other words, the noes must prevail to set a new standard.And that’s the nuclear option. There’s a new precedent.Then, at some point later Thursday the Senate will take a new vote to invoke cloture and finish debate on the Gorsuch nomination. They’ll just need a simple majority to invoke cloture under the new precedent.By rule, opponents of an issue get 30 hours of debate following cloture. That means the Senate likely has to wait until Friday night to get to a final confirmation vote.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/03/dems-have-enough-votes-to-filibuster-gorsuch-increasing-odds-nuclear-option.html
Dems have enough votes to filibuster Gorsuch, increasing odds of 'nuclear option'Senate Democrats have enough votes to filibuster the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court, increasing the odds that majority Republicans will deploy the so-called “nuclear option” to get him confirmed.Several senators announced their opposition to Gorsuch on Monday ahead of a Senate Judiciary Committee vote. The new Gorsuch foes bring the number of Democrats willing to block his nomination to over 40 – the number needed to prevent the Senate from ending debate and advancing to a final vote.Among the latest to come out against Gorsuch were Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, as well as Sens. Chris Coons, of Delaware, Patrick Leahy, of Vermont, and Mark Warner, of Virginia.“Despite his impressive academic credentials, Judge Gorsuch’s record and evasive responses – even refusing to answer questions regarding his views of cases like Roe v. Wade and Citizens United – do not give me confidence that he possesses a judicial philosophy that will serve the American public well,” Warner said in a statement.Republican leaders, however, have a way out – they can trigger what’s known as the nuclear option, by changing Senate precedent to advance to a final vote with the support of just 51 senators, as opposed to 60.Doing so is considered a major change in the way the Senate operates, and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle could take issue with the move.But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has vowed to confirm Gorsuch one way or the other.Even as Democrats like Warner voiced support for a filibuster and opposition to the nuclear option, another Democrat on Monday said he would not join his colleagues in the filibuster.Colorado Sen. Michael Bennet said in a statement that, “Using the filibuster and nuclear option at this moment takes us in the wrong direction. … I will oppose efforts to filibuster the nomination, and strongly encourage my colleagues not to use the nuclear option.”But with over 40 senators willing to oppose Gorsuch and presumably filibuster, a nuclear option showdown is increasingly likely.Fox News’ Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/03/grassley-pressing-fbis-mccabe-in-trump-russia-dossier-case.html
Grassley pressing FBI's McCabe in Trump-Russia dossier caseThe chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee is poking around for more information on the spurious dossier leaked to the media ahead of President Trump’s inauguration – this time, homing in on Andrew McCabe, the second in command at the FBI.In a March 28 letter, Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, told FBI Director James Comey he wants a detailed description on the involvement of Deputy Director McCabe in the investigation of Russian ties to Trump associates.Grassley also wants to know whether McCabe’s involvement in the probe “raises the appearance a conflict of interest in light of his wife’s ties with Clinton’s associates” and whether it would merit McCabe recusing himself from the investigation.Grassley was referring to McCabe’s wife having accepted $700,000 in political contributions facilitated by Hillary Clinton ally Terry McAuliffe, the Virginia governor, for her state Senate run.As reported by The Washington Examiner, Grassley noted McCabe already is being looked at by the inspector general for his involvement in the Clinton email investigation, despite his wife's ties.[Image: FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe details the filing of civil forfeiture complaints seeking the forfeiture and recovery of more than $1 billion in assets associated with an international conspiracy to launder funds misappropriated from a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund 1MDB in Washington July 20, 2016. REUTERS/James Lawler Duggan - RTSIWER]   Expand / ContractFBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe is shown at a press conference in Washington on July 20, 2016. (Reuters)The Senate committee’s probe began March 6.Given the latest letter, the panel appears to be looking to see whether McCabe faces similar conflict of interest concerns on Trump matters.Grassley asked Comey for answers to 12 detailed questions into McCabe, including whether “anyone within the FBI filed a complaint with the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General regarding Mr. McCabe’s involvement in the investigation?” and whether anyone from the DOJ or the Inspector General had raised concerns “as to whether Mr.McCabe’s alleged partisan conflict would also apply to the investigation of Mr. Trump’s associates?”The Senate Judiciary Committee is, more broadly, investigating whether the FBI wrongly included political opposition research from Trump’s opponents in its probe, and then paid the author of that controversial dossier, a former British spy, to work for the FBI on its investigation.McCabe has periodically faced scrutiny for his family ties to the Clinton world.Fox News reported last month that McCabe did not list his wife's 2015 donations or his wife’s salary in financial disclosure forms -- though such disclosure was not technically required.Grassley, in his recent letter, revived concerns about McCabe's involvement in the Clinton email case.“While Mr. McCabe recused himself from public corruption cases in Virginia – presumably including the reportedly ongoing investigation of Mr. McAuliffe regarding illegal campaign contributions – he failed to recuse himself from the Clinton email investigation, despite the appearance of a conflict created by his wife’s campaign accepting $700,000 from a close Clinton associate during the investigation.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/03/gorsuch-wins-senate-panel-endorsement-setting-up-floor-showdown.html
Gorsuch wins Senate panel endorsement, setting up floor showdownThe Senate Judiciary Committee voted Monday along party lines to endorse Judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court, setting up a showdown between Democratic and Republican senators in a series of final votes expected later this week.The 20-member committee voted 11-9 for Gorsuch, President Trump’s pick for the high court seat left by conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February 2016.“The nominee’s opponents have tried to find a fault with him that will stick. And it just hasn’t worked,” said committee Chairman Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, who allowed all 20 members to speak before the final vote. “Judge Gorsuch is eminently qualified. He’s a mainstream judge who’s earned the universal respect of his colleagues on the bench and in the bar. He applies the law as we in Congress write it.”Despite such praise from the GOP side, all Democrats on the committee voted against the nominee, in a sign of the clash to come as the nomination advances to the full Senate.The chamber’s Democratic leaders appear ready to try to hold up the nomination through what's known as a filibuster. Republicans have 52 senators and would need the support of eight Democrats to reach the 60 votes necessary to overcome a filibuster and head to a final vote.That appears out of reach. Prior to the committee vote, more than 40 Democrats said they were willing to block the Gorsuch nomination -- increasing the likelihood that majority Republicans would use the so-called "nuclear option" to push the nomination through.California Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the committee’s top Democrat, returned to her party’s repeated argument that Judge Merrick Garland, former-President Barack Obama’s nominee, should have been considered for the Scalia seat, but leaders of the Republican-controlled Senate held off until after the 2016 presidential election.Feinstein also revisited a ruling Gorsuch made on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, in Colorado, in which he sided with a company that fired a trucker for disobeying orders by unhitching his vehicle from a malfunctioning tractor-trailer and driving off -- after waiting hours for help in sub-zero temperatures.“So this is not the usual nominee,” she said. “Therefore, I cannot support the nominee.”So far, just three Senate Democrats have announced support for Gorsuch, a graduate of Columbia University, Harvard Law and Oxford University.They are Sens. Joe Donnelly, of Indiana; Heidi Heitkamp, of North Dakota; and Joe Manchin of West Virginia -- all representing states Trump won in November and all up for re-election next year.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Sunday that Gorsuch nevertheless will be confirmed by Friday.He was noncommittal on whether he was prepared to trigger to so-called "nuclear option," a change in precedent that would allow the Senate to break the filibuster with a simple majority of 51 votes.But on Monday, a Republican colleague spoke bluntly and indicated the party would go that route. South Carolina GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Judiciary committee member, said: “This will be the last person subject to a filibuster. … Ironically, we are going to change the rules … for somebody who has been a good judge over such a long time.”Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., predicted Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press" that Gorsuch would not pass the 60-vote benchmark and argued that Trump should "try to come up with a mainstream nominee."Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, a Democrat on the committee, like Feinstein argued that Gorsuch had too often sided against the “little guy.”“In case after case, he favored corporations, lawyers and the special interest elite … over workers, consumers, people of disability and victims of discrimination,” he said.Utah Sen. Mike Lee, a Republican on the committee, said Gorsuch likely thought the firing of the trucker was “foolish.”“But that wasn’t the question before him,” Lee said. “The law, as he carefully analyzed it, would not allow judicial intervention.”The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/30/mccain-north-korea-in-war-words-over-crazy-fat-kid-crack.html
McCain, North Korea in war of words over 'crazy fat kid' crackSen. John McCain went nuclear against North Korea, in a manner of speaking.The Arizona Republican’s verbal put-down of dictator Kim Jong Un earlier this month – “this crazy fat kid” – was met with a stiff, angry response from the communist regime, which warned McCain of dire consequences to follow.“As such guys as John McCain and [Sen.] Ted Cruz made a provocation tantamount to declaration of war against the [Democratic People’s Republic of Korea], the DPRK will take steps to counter it,” said an official DPRK statement, published by the Korean Central News Agency. “They will have to bitterly experience the disastrous consequences to be entailed by their reckless tongue-lashing and then any regret for it will come too late.”The statement, also coming in the wake of Cruz's efforts to label North Korea as a state sponsor of terror, went on to characterize McCain and Cruz as being “like a puppy knowing no fear of the tiger.”McCain, in a Wednesday Tweet, responded: “What, did they want me to call him a crazy skinny kid?”What, did they want me to call him a crazy skinny kid? https://t.co/Ym3juRfBev— John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) March 29, 2017Kim Jong Un, the 33-year-old strongman who presides over a starving populace, is estimated to weigh upwards of 275 pounds and reportedly suffers from gout.McCain made the crack about the tubby tinhorn during a March 22 interview in which he also advocated pressuring China into helping moderate the increasingly hostile behavior of North Korea.“China is the only one that can control Kim Jong Un, this crazy fat kid that’s running North Korea,” McCain said on MSNBC. “They could stop North Korea’s economy in a week.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/29/senators-expand-russia-investigation-amid-scrutiny-house-probe.html
Senators expand Russia investigation, amid scrutiny of House probeLeaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee announced Wednesday they are expanding their investigation of Russia’s interference in the U.S. presidential campaign and beyond, vowing to remain independent and “get to the bottom of this” – amid mounting controversy over a similar probe on the House side.The senators announced they are now scheduling interviews and reviewing thousands of sensitive documents, and are prepared to issue subpoenas if necessary.“This investigation’s scope will go wherever the intelligence leads it,” Chairman Richard Burr, R-N.C., told reporters, speaking alongside top panel Democrat Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va.The committee is set to hold its first public hearing on the Russia issue on Thursday, a session that will feature several foreign policy experts. But on the sidelines, Burr and Warner revealed new details about the scope of their investigation.Burr said they’ve devoted seven professional staff members to the investigation, and they’re going through “an unprecedented amount of documents.” He said they’re reviewing “thousands” of raw intelligence and other products.Further, he said the committee this week began to schedule its first interviews -- making 20 requests so far, with five already scheduled. He confirmed that Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and a senior adviser, is among those the committee will interview.“We will get to the bottom of this,” Warner said.Their joint press conference marked a stark contrast with how a similar investigation is proceeding on the House side, where top lawmakers are battling over whether a key Republican should even be involved.That Republican, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., riled Democrats last week after claiming he learned Trump transition team communications were incidentally collected during surveillance operations conducted under the prior administration. The comments clashed with FBI Director James Comey’s testimony to the same committee that they had no evidence to support Trump’s controversial allegations of wiretapping against him.But Democrats voiced concern that Nunes was too closely tied to Trump. And top committee Democrat Adam Schiff, D-Calif., and others are now calling on Nunes to recuse himself from the Russia probe after it emerged he viewed secret information on White House grounds.Nunes has rejected those calls, and defended his actions.On Wednesday, Burr was asked whether he can pledge impartiality given his history as a Trump campaign adviser.The senator said he “absolutely” could. He disclosed that he voted for Trump but suggested that would not affect the investigation.He acknowledged a big “challenge” for the committee is now looking at whether Trump was involved in Russia’s meddling.While Trump associates are under scrutiny for past contacts with Russia officials, the White House and its allies insist that Obama officials improperly snooped on Trump associates leading up to the inauguration.Circa reported Wednesday that some intercepted communications in that period involved Trump transition officials or foreign figures’ perceptions of the incoming administration.According to the report, top Obama aides routinely reviewed intelligence reports from incidental intercepts of Americans abroad, after rules were relaxed starting in 2011 pertaining to such surveillance. Such reports identified Americans either talking to foreign sources or discussed by foreign figures, according to Circa. Some names were “unmasked,” which is an issue certain Republican lawmakers are now looking at as they probe whether Trump associates were “unmasked” during the transition.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/28/road-map-to-senates-nuclear-option-for-confirming-gorsuch.html
Road map to the Senate's nuclear option for confirming GorsuchWith complications mounting for Republican efforts to rally 60 votes to confirm Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, you’re going to hear a lot in the next few weeks about the so-called “nuclear option.”Here’s what it all means:Let’s start with the mathematics.There are 52 Republicans in the Senate and 48 senators who caucus with the Democrats.It only takes a simple majority to confirm a Supreme Court nominee. But it takes 60 votes to break a filibuster on a Supreme Court nominee. Never before has there been a successful filibuster of a Supreme Court nominee.The Senate filibustered the nomination of Associate Justice Abe Fortas to become chief justice of the United States in 1968. But Fortas was already on the Supreme Court. Nominees have withdrawn. President George W. Bush nominated Harriet Miers in 2005 before she pulled out, anticipating a rocky confirmation process. President Ronald Reagan tapped Douglas Ginsburg for the Court in 1987. But Ginsburg withdrew over his marijuana use. Twelve Supreme Court nominees went down to defeat outright on the Senate floor. The most recent Supreme Court nominee to stumble at confirmation came in 1987 when Reagan selected Robert Bork. Bork only garnered 42 ayes for confirmation and the nomination failed.Senate Democrats have made it clear that they intend to filibuster Gorsuch and make Senate Republicans cough up 60 yeas to break their filibuster.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., insists that the Senate will fact confirm Gorsuch.But how do they get there?Republicans think they can persuade some Democratic senators who represent swing states who face re-election in 2018 to at least vote to break the filibuster (known as voting for cloture) if not voting to confirm Gorsuch. Those senators include Sens. Bill Nelson, D-Fla.; Joe Donnelly, D-Ind.; Angus King, I-Maine; Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich.; Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.; Jon Tester, D-Mont.; Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D.; Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio; Bob Casey, D-Pa.; Tim Kaine, D-Va.; Joe Manchin, D-W.Va.; and Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis.But if not, Republicans are stuck. They can’t get Gorsuch to a final vote.They say paybacks are hell. And both sides have a lot to say about paybacks right now.For Democrats, this is about Republicans failing to ever hold a confirmation hearing for President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Merrick Garland. For Republicans, this is about Democrats taking the extraordinary step in 2013 to lower the bar to from 60 to 51 to break filibusters for all Executive Branch nominees except Supreme Court nominees.This was known as the “nuclear option” and cast the Senate into “nuclear winter” for more than a year.Both sides feel the other side wronged them. Now, this is about revenge.Let’s go back to the fall of 2013 when Democrats teed up the nuclear option.Democrats intensified their criticisms of Republicans when the GOP stalled the nomination of Patricia Millett to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The Senate didn’t clear a procedural hurdle which required 60 votes to break a GOP filibuster of the Millett nomination.The filibuster is the quintessence of the Senate. The right of the minority to stall and delay – even upend the agenda the majority party intends to advance. Stripping the Senate of at least part of that opportunity for dissent fundamentally changes the place. But these filibusters stymied general Senate business and drove Democrats up a wall.So, they hit the nuclear button.It should be noted that the “nuclear option” is not a rules change, but a change in precedent. But much of what the Senate does is based on precedent.The Senate must be in a very unique parliamentary posture in order to detonate a “nuclear option.” It has to get onto a parliamentary item which is “non-debatable.” In other words, senators can’t demand more time to speak on a given topic, and a senator cannot appeal how the chair rules on a parliamentary question. That is the key. If a senator can challenge how the chair has ruled, they can gum up the works. But if the chair establishes a new precedent by ruling something to be in or out of order, no one can contest that ruling.And therefore, the Senate establishes a new precedent.This is how it worked in 2013: That year, then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., tried to proceed to consider again a failed vote to end debate on the Millett nomination for the D.C. Circuit. That motion was non-debatable … so the GOP couldn’t stop him. So, the Senate voted to make the failed vote the business at hand before the Senate.At that point, Reid made a point of order that the votes required to break a filibuster on “all nominations other than for the Supreme Court of the United State States is by majority vote.” The presiding officer (a Democrat) ruled against Reid (this was pre-baked). After all, that was the old precedent. So Reid then appealed the chair’s ruling. That forced the Senate to vote on what the chair ruled: a simple majority wasn’t valid to end filibusters on Executive Branch nominees. Just a supermajority (60). But on the appeal, the Senate voted against the chair. That affirmed Reid’s position. The Senate overrode the chair’s ruling, establishing a new precedent to break filibusters on all nominations except the Supreme Court.The Senate then voted to end the filibuster on the Millett nomination with just 55 yeas (not 60, as per the old way). The Senate then confirmed Millett, 56-38.And thus, the Senate established a new precedent.For a new nuclear option, McConnell would have to pitch the Senate into a special parliamentary posture in order to mimic Reid’s 2013 gambit and lower the bar to break a possible filibuster against Gorsuch.The question is whether he has 51 senators (or 50 senators and Vice President Pence) willing to go along with the tactic. Keep in mind that Republicans were very sad that Reid hit the nuclear switch in 2013. They felt it diminished the Senate and its history of “unlimited debate.” Republicans and some Democrats didn’t like that the Senate was changing the bar for filibusters, because, well, they may like to filibuster a given issue sometime.It is unclear if McConnell, an institutionalist, wishes to go that route. It is risky. And he may not even have the votes to get Republican senators to vote against the ruling of the chair to establish a new precedent to end filibusters on Supreme Court nominees.There are also questions as to whether Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., may want to truly go to the mat on this nominee or put vulnerable Democratic senators up for re-election next year in challenging states on the hook. Confirming a conservative to take the place of a conservative like Antonin Scalia on the court may be okay for some Democrats. It doesn’t disrupt the balance of the court. But confirming another conservative to take the place of say, a liberal, like Ruth Bader Ginsburg, is entirely different.There is another way for Gorsuch to wind up on the Supreme Court if he can’t overcome a filibuster: a recess appointment.Article I, Section 5 of the Constitution says that “Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.” In other words, the House and Senate must earn the blessing of the other before taking off for more than three days. If they don’t, the House and Senate sometimes meet for just a few seconds at a time at three-day intervals with skeleton staff. These are called “pro-forma” sessions and constitute a “meeting” of the House or Senate.The founders anticipated periodic congressional recesses. So to maintain the operation of government, the founders grafted a clause onto Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution. It states that “The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate.”In 2012, President Obama made four recess appointments during a three-day respite between two pro-forma sessions. Opponents of the effort challenged the president’s appointments to the Supreme Court. Justices ruled Obama’s ploy to be unconstitutional. In National Labor Relations Board v. Canning, Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer wrote that it was out of bounds for the Executive Branch to tell the Legislative Branch what constitutes a recess.“The Senate is in session when it says it is,” wrote Breyer in the majority opinion.Moreover, the court also determined that a recess between three and 10 days is too abbreviated for a recess appointment. In other words, the Senate has to be gone for more than 10 days to make the recess appointment valid.So, the Republican House and Senate would have to work together in order to engineer a recess, thus opening the door to a recess and giving Trump the window he needs for a possible recess appointment.Recess appointments to the Supreme Court aren’t unprecedented. President Dwight Eisenhower advanced two individuals to the high court via recess appointments: William Brennan in 1956 and Potter Stewart in 1958. However, all recess appointments are temporary. The Senate later confirmed both Brennan and Stewart.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/hawaii-lawmakers-slam-sessions-over-remarks-about-travel-ban-judge.html
Hawaii lawmakers slam Sessions over remarks about travel ban judgeHawaii's Democratic senators criticized Attorney General Jeff Sessions Thursday over remarks he made on a radio show about the federal judge who halted President Trump's revised travel ban last month.The judge, Derrick Watson, issued an order blocking the administration's ban on new visas for people from six Muslim-majority countries and temporarily halting the U.S. refugee program.. The Justice Department is appealing the order."I really am amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific can issue an order that stops the President of the United States from what appears to be clearly his statutory and Constitutional power," Sessions said Tuesday in an interview with radio host Mark Levin.Sens. Mazie Hirono and Brian Schatz slammed Sessions' remarks in Twitter posts.Hey Jeff Sessions, this #IslandinthePacific has been the 50th state for going on 58 years. And we won’t succumb to your dog whistle politics— Senator Mazie Hirono (@maziehirono) April 20, 2017Hawaii was built on the strength of diversity & immigrant experiences- including my own. Jeff Sessions’ comments are ignorant & dangerous— Senator Mazie Hirono (@maziehirono) April 20, 2017Mr. Attorney General: You voted for that judge. And that island is called Oahu. It's my home. Have some respect. https://t.co/sW9z3vqBqG— Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) April 20, 2017When asked about the comment on Fox News' "The First 100 Days," Sessions said Hawaii was "a beautiful island" before adding, "We’ve got about 800 federal judges. One, protected perhaps by the 9th Circuit [Court of Appeals] has stopped an executive order by the President of the United States that I believe is constitutional and that I believe is explicitly approved by statutory law, so the process will go forward [and] appeals will be held."The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/12/sanders-says-trump-will-be-one-term-president.html
Sanders says Trump will be a one-term presidentNEW YORK –   Promising to "expose the Republican Party for what it is," Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders predicted Wednesday that President Donald Trump would be a one-term president as the liberal icon prepared to launch a nationwide tour to rally Democrats."In terms of the first three months in office, Donald Trump is the least popular president in the history of polling," Sanders told The Associated Press. He cited the Republican president's support for a health care bill that he said strips insurance from millions of Americans, tax reform that cuts taxes for the rich and budget cuts that disproportionately affect the poor."I do not believe that if Trump continues these policies that he's going to be re-elected. Nor do I think that the Republicans are going to do well in 2018," Sanders said. "The momentum right now is with the progressive movement in this country. And I think the Republicans are on the defensive and will be on the defensive increasingly."The comments come as Sanders prepares to launch a tour next week with Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez that includes visits to some tossup and Republican-leaning states where Democrats struggled in the last election. The tour opens Monday with a rally in Portland, Maine, followed by appearances over the subsequent four days in Kentucky, Florida, Texas, Nebraska, Utah, Arizona and Nevada.It is an aggressive schedule reminiscent of the 75-year-old senator's recent presidential campaign. He failed to wrestle the nomination from Hillary Clinton in 2016, but developed a large and passionate following from his party's liberal base.The Democratic Party hit bottom last fall after an election season in which they lost the presidency and could not take control of the House or Senate despite favorable conditions in some cases. Sanders acknowledged his party's failures in 2016 and said the upcoming tour would "begin the process of fighting back."He also cited Tuesday's special election in Kansas, where Republicans scored a narrow victory over a little-known Democrat in a district where the GOP dominated in the past."The Republicans had to spend money like crazy at the end to beat him," Sanders said. "I think that's a very good omen for the future."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/19/dems-struggle-to-stir-up-energetic-opposition-to-gorsuch.html
Dems struggle to stir up energetic opposition to GorsuchPresident Trump's choice to sit on the Supreme Court will get his turn in the political spotlight Monday after laying low for weeks. But what has traditionally been a high-profile confirmation fight is approaching with barely a whimper from the opposition party.While Democratic leaders have revived their public criticism of Neil Gorsuch in recent days, liberal advocacy groups have all but abandoned efforts to defeat his nomination through public opinion -- with scant paid issue advertising or public rallies.Many progressives lament Democratic senators have been distracted by other ideological fights.A group led by NARAL Pro-Choice America recently sent a blistering letter to Senate Democrats slamming lawmakers for not putting up more of a fight against Gorsuch ahead of Monday's confirmation hearing."Democrats have failed to demonstrate a strong, unified resistance to this nominee despite the fact that he is an ultra-conservative jurist who will undermine our basic freedoms and threaten the independence of the federal judiciary," said the letter. "We need you to do better."The justices themselves hope the arrival of Gorsuch will end what court sources say has been a tense 13-month period since Justice Antonin Scalia's sudden passing. The current 4-4 ideological divide has kept the court off its internal workplace rhythms -- operating in something of a judicial vacuum, reluctant to tackle hot-button issues that would lead to precedent-setting impact.Tough talkDespite the criticism from some on the left, the Senate minority promises tough questions for the nominee."If he shows in his answers that he is out of the mainstream as his opinions indicate he very well may be," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., "I will use every tool available, including the filibuster, to oppose him."And some progressive groups support the low-key strategy being led by Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y."I think Senate Democrats are paying attention in the way that the American people want all senators to pay attention which is to have a robust hearing and really ask Judge Gorsuch these really difficult questions," said Elizabeth Wydra, president of the Constitutional Accountability Center. "Whether he will be a truly independent judge, whether he will apply the law fairly to all."But while left-leaning groups may be less than engaged, conservative legal advocates have put their money behind their message.A $10 million ad campaign spearheaded by the Judicial Crisis Network has targeted vulnerable Senate Democrats facing re-election in two years."Jon Tester is creating gridlock, threatening to obstruct Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch," says one ad, focusing on the Montana senator seeking a third term. "Tell Jon Tester: stop the obstruction and confirm Gorsuch."Other JCN ads tout Gorsuch's credentials, and friends of the nominee said he is prepared to face the tough questioning of senators.His conservative supporters also point to bipartisan support among the legal communities in academia and the government."There are going to be people who are ideologically opposed to this nomination come hell or high water, and I think ... once [the] American public sees Judge Gorsuch, they realize what a terrific nomination this is," said Thomas Dupree, a former Bush deputy assistant attorney general. "It's been difficult  for the opponents of Judge Gorsuch to really stir up resentment and opposition to this nomination precisely because he is so eminently qualified."Hearings strategyParty sources say Democratic senators will focus much of their attention on seeking Gorsuch's views on abortion, since he has not ruled directly on the right to the procedure."I will not support any candidate who intends to turn back the clock on civil rights, including women's reproductive rights and LGBT equality," said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., who has not said whether she would ultimately vote for Gorsuch.Other areas of Democratic interest:Separation of powers, and whether Gorsuch would be an independent voice to strike down excesses in Trump's executive authority, including the president's revised order banning travel for immigrants from certain countries.Voting rights and campaign finance reform, specifically whether the nominee thinks current unlimited corporate donations to PACs are permissible.Workers’ rights, and challenges over pay equity, pension benefits, job discrimination claims, and family and medical leave.Some progressives have actually urged Democrats not to ask any questions at the hearings, as a dramatic rebuff for Republicans refusing to give former President Barack Obama's high court nominee, Judge Merrick Garland, a hearing or vote.And they demand a filibuster to prevent Gorsuch from ever getting a floor vote.Bitter feelings linger. "This is a stolen seat being filled by an illegitimate and extreme nominee," said Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., "and I will do everything in my power to stand up against this assault on the court."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/16/gop-sen-paul-calls-colleague-mccain-little-bit-unhinged.html
GOP Sen. Paul calls colleague McCain 'a little bit unhinged'Sen. Rand Paul called fellow Republican Sen. John McCain "a little bit unhinged" Thursday after McCain had said "the senator from Kentucky is now working for Vladimir Putin," the Russian president.He also said McCain, who is 80, may be "past his prime."The discord between two senators from the same party is remarkable even in the current political environment.Paul's comments came in an interview on MSNBC's "Morning Joe." He was responding to remarks McCain made a day earlier while seeking a Senate vote on including Montenegro in NATO.Russia opposes Montenegro's inclusion in NATO. As debate ensued, McCain saw Paul come to the Senate floor and remarked that anyone who objected to his request would be carrying out "the desires and ambitions of Vladimir Putin, and I do not say that lightly."Paul objected nonetheless, a parliamentary obstacle to McCain's request for a future vote.The senator from Kentucky did not explain his actions and left the Senate chamber, which only seemed to increase McCain's disdain. He said Paul was blocking a treaty supported by an overwhelming number of senators and repeated the assertion about working for Putin. Two Democratic senators -- Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and Ben Cardin of Maryland -- also criticized Paul."I have to agree with Senator McCain. He is working in support of Russia's interest in America or he is holding this hostage for something that is totally unrelated to what we are doing with Montenegro's accession into NATO. In either case, it is totally inappropriate," Shaheen said.Paul said in Thursday's interview that McCain in his remarks has made "a really, really strong case for term limits. I think maybe he's past his prime. I think maybe he's gotten a little bit unhinged." McCain was elected to a sixth term last year.Paul went on to argue that McCain's foreign policy views "greatly overextend us." Paul questioned whether it would be in the best interest of the United States to get involved in a war if Montenegro were involved in an altercation with another country.It's not the first time the pair had a war of words. McCain once said it's always the "wacko birds" on the right and left who get the media megaphone, and then made clear he was talking about Paul, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/19/ernst-criticizes-trumps-mar-lago-visits.html
Ernst criticizes Trump's Mar-a-Lago visitsRepublican Sen. Joni Ernst told constituents at a town hall on Tuesday that President Trump has a number of character “flaws” and spends too much time at Mar-a-Lago.Though the Iowa Republican backed Trump throughout the campaign, she made clear she backs his policies more than him, personally. Ernst spoke bluntly when asked at a town hall in Wall Lake, Iowa, how she could support “a man that treats women the way Donald Trump does.”“Would you say they’re character flaws?” Ernst responded. “I think he has a number of—I think we have a president who has a number of flaws—I support a majority of the policies versus the actual person.”Ernst stood by then-candidate Trump last fall following the release of a 2005 video in which Trump made lewd remarks about women, even as other Republicans were distancing themselves. The senator did, however, say that she was fighting for her country, not Trump, and would support the Republican ticket due to her disagreements with Hillary Clinton.Ernst also took the town hall opportunity Tuesday to address her concerns with the president’s frequent travel to the ‘southern White House.’“I do wish he would spend more time in Washington, D.C. That is what we have the White House for,” Ernst said. “We would love to see more of those State Department visits in Washington D.C. I think it’s smart that he does business in Washington D.C.”Ernst suggested other Republican lawmakers feel similarly about Trump’s visits to his property in Palm Beach, Fla.“I have not spoken to him about the Florida issue yet, but that is something I think has been bothering not just me, but I think other members of our caucus,” Ernst said. “So I think that is going to be a conversation that we have when we get back to Washington D.C.”Ernst's senate office reiterated the senator's overall support for the president.Press Secretary Brook Hougesen told Fox News in a statement: "Senator Ernst very much supports President Trump. These were questions she received at a town meeting, she didn’t bring them up proactively. She would like to see more fiscal responsibility with respect to the visits to Mar-a-Lago. Regarding the comment on “flaws”, her point is simply that one would be hard-pressed to find a perfect president that one would always agree with on everything. However, she does agree with the president on many policy items."According to FiveThirtyEight, Ernst so far has voted in line with President Trump’s position and policies 100 percent of the time.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/06/sen-risch-military-action-against-assad-probably-will-take-place.html
Sen. Risch: Military action against Assad 'probably will take place'Sen. James Risch, R-Idaho, told Fox News' "The First 100 Days" Thursday night that U.S. military action against Syrian President Bashar Assad "would probably take place," but did not specify what form that action might take."I think the question right now is, what does it look like? How big is it? How broad is it?" Risch, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told host Martha MacCallum. "How surgical? How long? How short? And what kind of a coalition they bring together to do it?"TILLERSON SAYS COALITION FORMING TO TARGET ASSAD, TRUMP HEARING MILITARY OPTIONSRisch spoke after Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced that "steps are underway" to form an international coalition aimed at forcing Syria's leader from power after this week's deadly chemical weapons attack. Assad's regime is backed by Russia and Iran."I’ll tell you, the ones that are going to be wringing their hands over this are the people in Moscow right now," Risch told MacCallum, "because they’re going to have to make some serious choices as to how much capital they’re going to spend on this. Their expenditures going to go up pretty dramatically.""In addition, the world is watching," Risch went on. "We have a new president, our enemies and our friends are weighing every move that’s made to see whether they can count on the United States. I guarantee you that North Korea, they are weighing this very heavily and their future actions are going to be dictated by how the president responds to this."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/05/10/comey-fallout-democrats-try-to-disrupt-senate-process-to-get-special-prosecutor.html
Comey fallout: Democrats try to disrupt Senate process to get special prosecutorSenate Democrats intensified efforts Wednesday to pressure Republicans who control the chamber to support the appointment of a special prosecutor for the probe into Russia’s alleged election meddling and ties to the Trump campaign, vowing to block President Trump’s appointees and apparently try to disrupt meetings and other official business.Connecticut Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal said he would vote against the confirmation of any Trump appointee unless Republicans commit to appointing a special prosecutor.Blumenthal spoke the morning after the president fired FBI Director James Comey, whose agency was investigating whether Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign colluded with Russia to defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton.“I'm hoping the outcry will prompt Republicans to join me,” Blumenthal added. “The American people want the truth uncovered. I am talking with my colleagues about what the strategy will be to prompt a special prosecutor.”The Comey firing triggered calls from Democrats for a special prosecutor. They argue that the Trump administration cannot fairly or independently conduct such an investigation on its own president.Such critics scored a significant victory in March when they forced Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself from the Justice Department’s Russia probe.However, with only 48 Senate votes, compared to the Republicans’ 52, Democrats have few if any opportunities to keep a Trump appointee from getting the 50 votes needed to win confirmation.Right now, there are roughly 40 appointees formally awaiting Senate confirmation, with about 100 others yet to even enter the confirmation process.On Wednesday, Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, objected to a standard request to allow the Senate Judiciary Committee to meet about nominations, which resulted in the meeting being cut short.Fox News asked Senate Democratic leaders whether they plan to continue with such tactics, but they did not respond.California Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein said early Wednesday that she plans to “work closely” with Blumenthal on the appointment of an independent prosecutor.A Feinstein staffer told Fox News that the senator, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, was referring to legislation, not trying to block Trump appointees.Feinstein says the legislation would be to “ensure that a truly independent prosecutor can be appointed” but has provided no specifics.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell signaled Wednesday that he has no intentions of calling for -- or appointing -- a special prosecutor.“Today, we’ll no doubt hear calls for a new investigation, which will only serve to impede the current work being done to not only discover what the Russians may have done [but] also to let this body and the national security community develop counter measures to see that it doesn’t happen again,” the Kentucky Republican said.South Carolina GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham said a special investigator isn’t needed for a counter-intelligence investigation.“If it became a criminal investigation, then we'd have a discussion,” he said.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., suggested the Russian investigation probes were “getting too close to home” for Trump and called for a special prosecutor.“If there was ever a circumstance that warranted a special prosecutor, it is now,” he said.Trump said he fired Comey on the recommendations of Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.In a three-page memo released by the White House, Rosenstein argued that Comey mishandled two now-closed investigations into Clinton emails sent and received on a private server system while she was secretary of State.Clinton supporters say the probes largely contributed to her loss to Trump.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that the adminstration was "very confident" that Rosenstein could now lead the Russia probe.Virginia Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine acknowledged Wednesday that Senate Democrats cannot appoint a special prosecutor because Republicans control Congress.“We can't do that as a minority,” he said. “But we can insist upon it. And we think we'll have the American public strongly behind us.”He declined to say what congressional Democrats might do to force the GOP to appoint a special prosecutor but said, “There are things we are already doing,” including the Senate Intelligence Committee’s probe on the Russian matter.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/04/mitch-mcconnell-gop-evening-score-by-using-nuclear-option-for-gorsuch.html
Mitch McConnell: GOP evening the score by using 'nuclear option' for GorsuchSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has told Fox News' "The First 100 Days" Tuesday that the GOP's use of the so-called "nuclear option" to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch is their response to the Democrats' "breaking the rules of the Senate" in 2013."For 230 years, up or down, simple majority [required] for Supreme Court, Cabinet, everything until [Senate Minority Leader Chuck] Schumer invented this, so it’s a fairly recent thing to filibuster executive branch appointments," McConnell told host Dana Perino. "All we’ll do faced with this filibuster is even that up so the Supreme Court confirmation process is dealt with just like it was throughout the history of the country."McConnell also told Perino that that Senate was "going to confirm Judge Gorsuch on Friday. Exactly how that occurs, I guess, will depend upon our Democratic friends."Earlier Tuesday, McConnell filed for cloture to end debate on the Gorsuch nomination. He is expected Thursday to enact a rules change eliminating the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees and lowering the vote threshold for confirmation from 60 to 51.McConnell told Perino Tuesday night that Senate Democrats appear to be "pretty locked in" on their promise to filibuster Gorsuch."I think they’re responding to their base, which says ‘Resist everything.’ It’s particularly ridiculous to watch it on Gorsuch because there are no good arguments to vote against Gorsuch. None whatsoever."McConnell also said Tuesday that he had asked the Senate intelligence committee to investigate reports that former national security adviser Susan Rice ordered the unmasking of Trump transition officials under surveillance."Anything related to Susan Rice or any of these other suggestions will be handled by the intelligence committee," McConnell said, "and we look forward to receiving their report."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/05/10/trump-defends-comey-firing-says-ousted-fbi-director-wasnt-doing-good-job.html
Trump defends Comey firing, says ousted FBI director 'wasn't doing a good job'President Trump on Wednesday defended his decision to fire FBI Director James Comey, saying he "wasn't doing a good job."Trump's comments were in response to reporters asking him at the White House why he fired Comey on Tuesday evening."Very simply, he was not doing a good job," Trump continued.Earlier in the day, Trump used Twitter to defend his decision and fire back at Democrats who condemned the firing, while also arguing that Democrats have been among Comey's harshest critics.The Democrats have said some of the worst things about James Comey, including the fact that he should be fired, but now they play so sad!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017"The Democrats have said some of the worst things about James Comey, including the fact that he should be fired, but now they play so sad!" Trump said.He also said Comey had "lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington" and predicted, "When things calm down, they will be thanking me!"He pledged Comey "will be replaced by someone who will do a far better job, bringing back the spirit and prestige of the FBI."The flurry of Wednesday morning tweets came after Trump overnight hit Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer for his criticism.Schumer told reporters Tuesday evening that he had a phone conversation with the president prior to Comey's firing, and told Trump that he is "making a big mistake." Schumer questioned the timing of the firing and asked whether investigations into the Trump campaign's possible ties to Russia were "getting too close for the president."Cryin' Chuck Schumer stated recently, "I do not have confidence in him (James Comey) any longer." Then acts so indignant. #draintheswamp— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017Trump fired back later on Twitter, saying: "Cryin' Chuck Schumer stated recently, 'I do not have confidence in him (James Comey) any longer.' Then acts so indignant."Trump was likely referring to a November interview where Schumer called Comey’s decision to send a now-famous letter to lawmakers less than two weeks before the presidential election “appalling.”“To restore my faith, I am going to have to sit down and talk to him and get an explanation for why he did this,” Schumer said, according to Bloomberg.Schumer was not the only Democrat who voiced concerns about Comey. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., told CNN at the time that “maybe he’s (Comey) not right for the job.”Trump, for his part, appeared to have a tenuous relationship—at least publicly—with Comey through the campaign and into his young presidency. The Hill reported back in October that Trump praised Comey for having “guts” to “make the move that he made in light of the kind of opposition he had,” regarding Clinton's email probe.Prior to that comment, however, Trump was critical of Comey during the campaign for not bringing charges against Clinton.Trump’s seemingly abrupt decision Tuesday to fire Comey was made at the recommendation of top Justice Department officials who claimed that his controversial handling of the Clinton email case last year.A senior White House official told Fox News it was purely “coincidental” that the firing occurred on the same day Comey faced scrutiny for giving faulty testimony about emails sent from Clinton aide Huma Abedin to Anthony Weiner.Schumer, for his part, has called for a special prosecutor in the investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia."I have said from the get-go that I think a special prosecutor is the way to go, but now with what's happened it is the only way to go," Schumer told reporters on Tuesday.Schumer called on Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to appoint the prosecutor."Mr. Rosenstein, America depends on you to restore faith in our criminal justice system, which is going to be badly shattered after the administration's actions today," he said.The Associated Press contributed to this report
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/15/senate-votes-to-approve-trumps-picks-for-key-security-posts.html
Senate votes to approve Trump's picks for key security postsThe Senate backed key players of President Donald Trump's national security team on Wednesday, confirming his pick for intelligence director and clearing the way for an active-duty Army general to serve as his national security adviser.Senators voted 85-12 to approve the nomination of former Indiana Sen. Dan Coats as director of national intelligence, making him the fifth person to hold the post created after the Sept. 11 terror attacks.Minutes later they voted 86-10 to re-appoint H.R. McMaster as a three-star general "to a position of importance and responsibility." National security advisers aren't subject to Senate confirmation. But McMaster elected to remain in uniform rather than retire from military service, and generals need the chamber's approval when they're promoted or change assignments.Trump selected McMaster to lead the National Security Council as controversy swirled over communications that members of Trump's campaign team had with Russian officials. McMaster's predecessor, Michael Flynn, was asked to resign after misleading senior administration officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, about the nature of his contacts during the transition period with Russia's ambassador to the United States.One of McMaster's staunchest supporters, Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, said before the vote that McMaster is "experienced, talented, and he knows what it's like to be in combat with the enemy."As the Trump administration's top intelligence official, Coats will oversee 16 intelligence agencies that have, at times, been criticized by Trump, who has disparaged them for past failures and their assessment that the Kremlin interfered in the election in the president's favor.Coats also will be a key player in the government's ongoing investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 election.He faced a friendly confirmation hearing last month in front of his former Senate colleagues. He was pressed on whether he would stand up to political pressure from the Trump White House and assured lawmakers he would provide accurate and timely intelligence.Coats, 73, has swung back and forth between government service and lobbying, the type of Washington career that Trump has mocked. Since the early 1980s, Coats either has served in government or earned money as a lobbyist and board director. His most recently available Senate financial disclosure, from 2014, shows he had a net worth of more than $12 million.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/10/rand-paul-house-gops-obamacare-replacement-is-dead-on-arrival.html
Rand Paul: House GOP's Obamacare replacement is 'dead on arrival'Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., slammed House Republicans' healthcare bill in an interview with Fox News' "Tucker Carlson Tonight" Thursday, vowing the measure would be "dead on arrival" in the Senate."It keeps the ObamaCare taxes for a year," Paul told host Ed Henry. "Then [it] keeps the Cadillac tax forever; [it] keeps the ObamaCare subsidies, but renames them tax credits; [it] keeps the individual mandate, but you don’t pay the government the penalty, you’ve got to pay the insurance company ... That's the very definition of ObamaCare Lite."Paul, a licensed opthamologist, touted his own health care plan, which he said was based on ideas sketched out by current Health and Human Services secretary Tom Price."What you replace it with are market reforms," Paul said. "You expand health savings accounts, and then you expand health care associations, these associations like co-ops or buying pools."When Henry questioned Paul over whether his plan would get the necessary 60 votes in the Senate, Paul answered, "I can't be blamed if somebody won't vote for something."Paul called for ObamaCare to be repealed before any work begins on a replacement, telling Henry that House Republicans "might as well just start over ... We’re going to have to separate repeal from replace."You won’t meet anybody who dislikes ObamaCare more than me," Paul said. "I have lived ObamaCare. It is a disaster. I have voted to repeal it and I will vote again, but I will not vote for ObamaCare Lite stuck on the repeal bill."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/07/graham-gives-trump-his-new-cell-number-in-test-trust.html
Graham gives Trump his new cell number, in test of trustPresident Trump can hear him now.Sen. Lindsey Graham, after getting into a political scrap with Trump at the start of the 2016 primary race that culminated in the billionaire businessman publicizing the senator’s personal phone number, indicated Tuesday they patched things up at a lunch meeting – and even gave him his new digits.“How good was the meeting?  I gave him my NEW cell phone number,” Graham said in a statement.This could be a test of trust for Trump.Back in 2015, Trump read aloud Graham’s supposed phone number at a South Carolina rally, after Graham called him a “jackass” for questioning Sen. John McCain’s war hero status.Graham later recorded a video with IJReview showing him destroying a cell phone, all set to classical music.But all that’s in the past. Graham reported Tuesday that he heard positive things from Trump about rebuilding the military during their lunch meeting.“I had a great lunch meeting with President Trump today. He is strongly committed to rebuilding our military which is music to my ears,” he said. “President Trump is in deal-making mode and I hope Congress is like-minded.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/05/cotton-sure-senate-intelligence-panel-will-address-trump-wiretapping-claim.html
Cotton 'sure' Senate Intelligence panel will address Trump wiretapping claimArkansas Sen. Tom Cotton expressed certainty Sunday that President Trump’s accusation about the Obama administration wiretapping Trump's presidential campaign will be included in the Senate Intelligence committee’s ongoing probe into Russia’s possible efforts to “undermine the U.S. political system.”“We’ve already begun an inquiry on the intelligence committee into Russia’s efforts to undermine confidence in our political system,” Cotton, a Republican committee member, told “Fox News Sunday.” “That inquiry is going to be thorough, and we’re going to follow the facts wherever they lead us. And I’m sure that this matter will be a part of that inquiry.”Cotton spoke one day after Trump said former President Obama ordered Trump Tower wiretapped and minutes after the White House called for congressional investigations into the matter.Cotton also said he didn’t know whether the Obama administration received the requisite federal court order for such wiretapping, which requires some evidence of a crime.And he repeated that he’s so far seen no proof that the Trump campaign successfully conspired with the Russian government to defeat Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.“I’ve seen no evidence,” Cotton told Fox. “And, again, I would just say that media reports have gotten pretty far over their skis over this.”Trump has based his wiretap allegation on a recent Breitbart News story and comments by conservative talk-show host Mark Levin, but has yet to provide his own evidence.The allegation follows ongoing questions about whether Russia was involved in the White House race. The U.S. intelligence committee has said the former Cold War enemy indeed “meddled” in the race, but found no evidence of vote tampering.Cotton's remarks were followed by California Rep. Devin Nunes, chairman of the Republican-led House Intelligence committee, who also said his panel will look into the matter.“One of the focus points of the ... committee's investigation is the U.S. government's response to actions taken by Russian intelligence agents during the presidential campaign," he said. "As such, the committee will make inquiries into whether the (U.S.) government was conducting surveillance activities on any political party’s campaign officials or surrogates."However, Califormia Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on that commitee, on Sunday dismissed Trump's wiretap claim."For a president of the United States to make such an incendiary charge -- and one that discredits our democracy in the eyes of the world -- is as destructive as it was baseless," he said."If the administration truly believes that President Obama illegally eavesdropped on the Trump campaign and wants our committee to investigate the matter, they should join my call on (FBI) Director James Comey to answer any question put to him that is pertinent to the Russia investigation."Cotton, a Trump supporter who served Army combat tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, also argued Sunday that Trump’s policies are nothing like a pro-Russia agenda, which would include efforts to “slash defense spending” and halt the production of domestic energy like oil and gas.Trump, in roughly his first seven weeks in office, has called for a $54 billion increase in Defense spending, ordered the completion of the Keystone XL oil pipeline and vowed to revive the domestic coal industry.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/02/sen-mcconnell-hope-to-replace-obamacare-in-next-month-to-six-weeks.html
Sen. McConnell: Hope to replace ObamaCare in 'next month to six weeks'Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told Fox News' "The First 100 Days" that he hopes to see action on legislation to repeal and replace ObamaCare "within the next month to six weeks."McConnell told host Martha MacCallum that the details of any new health care legislation would be agreed upon by himself, House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., and President Donald Trump.KEY REPUBLICAN WOULD VOTE AGAINST GOP'S OBAMACARE REPLACEMENT"We won the election, and with winning the election comes a responsibility to produce results," McConnell said. "And we feel that ObamaCare is a disaster and needs to be changed."McConnell also addressed the raft of tumultuous protests at two halls held by congressional Republicans that have coalesced around support of ObamaCare."Protests in America are as American as apple pie, so I’m not agitated about it," McConnell said. "I don’t care whether they were organized or not organized, they have a right to do what they’re doing. They don’t like this new administration. What they all have in common is not a single one of them voted for people like Donald Trump or Mitch McConnell and that’s OK."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/02/senate-dems-continue-fight-to-see-trumps-tax-returns-after-house-setbacks.html
Senate Dems continue fight to see Trump's tax returns after House setbacksSenate Democrats asked the Senate Finance Committee on Wednesday to review President Trump’s tax returns one day after House Republicans blocked Democrats’ pursuit of the documents.Seven Democrats urged the panel’s chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, to request documents from the U.S. Treasury for lawmakers to review and determine what can be released to the public, according to Reuters.“If committee members identify ties or relations to foreign governments within these documents, we will respectfully request the chairman and members of the committee hold a vote to make that information available to the public,” the senators said in a statement.House Dems said they planned to make a similar request to Hatch and House of Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, in a bipartisan letter signed by 140 lawmakers.House Dems have been defeated three times this year in a battle over Trump’s tax returns.Trump’s refusal to disclose his tax returns is a break with presidential tradition. He has said he would be happy to release them after the completion of an IRS audit.Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., told reporters Wednesday that 2020 presidential candidates should be required by law to release their tax returns, including Trump if he runs for re-election.“I think that prospectively what I'll do is, any candidate running in 2020 needs to release their tax returns,” Graham told reporters, according to Politico.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/23/how-long-can-trump-hill-republicans-keep-peace.html
How long can Trump, Hill Republicans keep the peace?President Trump routinely accosts the press corps, foreign leaders, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Sen. Lindsey Graham R-S.C.He has yet to verbally pistol-whip most congressional Republicans.Sure, he lit up Sens. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Marco Rubio, R-Fla., during the campaign. Remember handles like “Lyin’ Ted” and “Little Marco?” Who can possibly forget the absolutely baleful rhetoric Trump unleashed on House Speaker Paul Ryan?For now, Schumer remains a favorite foil of Trump. The president even got hooks into Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., over a meeting on opioid addiction which never happened.But one wonders how long Trump can hold his tongue if Congress doesn’t start to produce some of the legislative results he wants – let alone needs.It’s now late February. Other than some executive orders (albeit controversial ones) and un-doing a few Obama-era provisions, Congress hasn’t sent the the president much meat on which to chew. One can certainly point at Senate Democrats for slow-walking Cabinet nominees and siphoning valuable hours of Senate floor time. But frankly, it’s not like the Republican-led Congress had big ticket items ready for the president to sign.The marquee topics are tax reform and repealing and replacing ObamaCare. These will take time – despite some of the high-minded talk from the campaign trail that lawmakers could address things overnight. We’re hearing the Trump administration could have plans on both ready sometime in March.So far, there’s been minimal intra-tribal warfare on the polar ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. But Trump must tread carefully. Sure, he enjoys bedrock supporters like Reps. Chris Collins, R-N.Y., and Lou Barletta, R-Pa. But many congressional Republicans only boarded the Trump train as a matter of convenience. Many jumped on late. Others went along tepidly because of voters in their districts. Some aren’t with the Trump program even now. But they quietly sit on their hands because they know Republicans have a shot at tax reform and retrenching ObamaCare. This particular cohort of congressional Republicans winces at ill-conceived executive orders, phone calls to Australia and various pre-dawn tweets.Could this dam break?To some Republicans, repeal and replacement of ObamaCare is taking too long. Tax reform is struggling. Challenges to keep the government open and raise the debt ceiling (the total amount of red ink that the federal government can carry at any one time) lurk around the bend. The national debt now kisses $21 trillion. It’s not clear where Republican leaders will unearth the votes to hike the debt ceiling if there’s no concrete plan in place to reduce spending in a significant fashion.Most congressional Republicans didn’t invest deeply in Trump. If there aren’t results, they can’t blame President Obama or Hillary Clinton or House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. Schumer? Perhaps a little. Midterm elections loom next fall. These Republican lawmakers will only stay on the bus so long before they start to bail. After all, they need a foil, too. What about that mandate for Trump to govern? Clinton clocked the president in the popular vote by nearly three million clicks.Could they levy their grievances against Trump?They can blame the rocky, early days of his administration. Chaotic press conferences. Hawking Ivanka Trump’s jewelry on Fox. And Sweden. #StandwithSweden.It’s conceivable some congressional GOPers could dump Trump to build distance between themselves and the president. But, speaking of Sweden, others may very well hunker down in their own version of the Stockholm Syndrome, accepting their captor.You see, the electoral consequences of the midterm election might not be that dire for Republicans. Start with the Senate. Only eight Republicans face re-election next year compared to a staggering 25 Democrats. Many of those Democratic seats are hard to hold as they represent red states or turf Mr. Trump carried: Sens. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.; Jon Tester, D-Mont.; Heidi Heitkamp, D-N.D.; Joe Manchin, D-W.Va.; Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn.; Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis.; Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio; Joe Donnelly, D-Ind.; Bob Casey, D-Pa.; Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich.; and Angus King, I-Maine. Meantime, only two GOP senators are remotely vulnerable: Sens. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Dean Heller, R-Nev. Some Democrats are cautiously optimistic about the seat now occupied by Cruz.At this writing, Democrats might consider it a victory to keep GOP gains to two or three seats.In the House, Republicans represent 23 seats Clinton carried last fall. The current House breakdown is 238 Republicans and 193 Democrats with four vacancies. As things stand now, Democrats would have to run the table and capture 23 seats for an outright majority.That is a tall order.So, if you’re the Republican brain trust and things start to spill off the rails with Trump, who cares? Can Democrats truly tie GOPers to Trump in a way that makes any electoral difference? Most Democratic voters are concentrated in the liberal archipelagoes which hug the coasts. There aren’t even many swing voters available for Democrats to flip in House districts they need to win. Many congressional Republicans outperformed the president in their districts.Thus, we may have a version of the Congressional Stockholm Syndrome. Members willing to just go along, believing it holds little consequence for them at the ballot box.Will the midterm election focus on results and the possible toxicity of Trump? It might. But due to built-in GOP advantages, it might not matter what happens on either end of Pennsylvania Avenue.Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/16/senate-narrowly-confirms-mulvaney-as-trumps-budget-director.html
Senate narrowly confirms Mulvaney as Trump's budget directorThe Senate on Thursday narrowly confirmed Rep. Mick Mulvaney to head up the White House Office of Management and Budget.He was confirmed on a 51-49 vote.Mulvaney, a conservative Republican from South Carolina, faced opposition from Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain. McCain, R-Ariz., took issue with Mulvaney’s past support of defense cuts as well as his 2011 vote to withdraw all U.S. troops from Afghanistan.McCain's objections added to a growing level of bipartisan angst over some of President Trump's Cabinet nominees.On Wednesday, fast-food chain CEO Andrew Puzder withdrew from consideration for Labor secretary following controversy over his personal and professional past. About a dozen Republican senators had voiced reservations about the nominee. The Puzder news came on the heels of Trump’s national security adviser Michael Flynn resigning amid controversy over his past contact with the Russian ambassador.The Senate on Wednesday had voted 52-48 along party lines to advance Mulvaney to a final vote Thursday. McCain voted to advance Mulvaney, though he made his opposition clear from the Senate floor.“I will vote to oppose Congressman Mulvaney’s nomination because it would be irresponsible to place the future of the defense budget in the hands of a person with such a record and judgment on national security,” McCain said.Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran of Mississippi also expressed reservations about Mulvaney, though he voted for him Thursday.The White House Office of Management and Budget is one of the most powerful agencies in the federal government. As its head, Mulvaney will assist the president in preparing the annual federal budget. OMB examiners provide guidance to government agencies on how to prepare their budgets.Immediately following the Mulvaney vote, the Senate will turn its attention to Environmental Protection Agency nominee Scott Pruitt.The conservative Oklahoma attorney general is expected to easily clear a procedural vote but there is already pushback from some Republicans on his actual confirmation vote.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/16/no-style-points-in-gop-push-to-break-logjam-on-cabinet-picks.html
No style points in GOP push to break logjam on Cabinet picksIt doesn’t matter if you go to medical school and graduate last in your class. You still earn the initials “M.D.” after your name.In figure skating, likewise, for years it didn’t much matter whether a skater rocked a Salchow and a triple-toe loop. They could fall behind if judges didn’t find their “compulsory figures” – where skaters actually carved numerals in the ice – crisp and accurate.And when it comes to confirming members of President Trump’s Cabinet and other key officials, there certainly are no style points. All that matters is getting through.The Senate just confirmed Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin 100-0. Days earlier, now-Education Secretary Betsy DeVos squeaked through after Vice President Pence broke a 50-50 tie, the first time in history on a Cabinet member vote. Both are now Cabinet secretaries.And things are only tightening up, as majority Republicans try to push through President Trump’s remaining nominees after weeks of delay. The Senate confirmed Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin 53-47. There were 52-47 votes to confirm Jeff Sessions as attorney general and Tom Price as Health and Human Services secretary.There’s another tight vote Thursday morning to confirm Rep. Mick Mulvaney, R-S.C., as budget director. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., tangled with Mulvaney at his confirmation hearing over the congressman’s views on Pentagon spending and likely will vote nay.The Senate’s also planning an early Friday afternoon vote to confirm Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as the head of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). But Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, plans to vote no on Pruitt’s nomination.There’s little turning radius here, with Republicans holding a narrow 52-48 majority. Pruitt faces a possible 51-49 vote, just like on Mulvaney. Again, they don’t award style points. But it’s unclear precisely who may be around to vote. As chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, McCain planned to lead a congressional delegation of lawmakers to the annual Munich Security Conference tonight. McCain tells Fox News he’ll cut town early on his own – probably missing the Pruitt vote on Friday. It’s unclear if any other senators may bail. When asked if Pence’s services may be required due to absent senators, a senior Senate GOP leadership source replied flatly “we don’t lose votes.”Senate Republicans have to get it right on each roll call. They can’t just stop and start all over again like Adele at the Grammys.Senate Democrats successfully dragged out the confirmation process for multiple nominees for weeks. Senate Republicans have repeatedly executed a parliamentary maneuver to break a Democratic filibuster on most nominees. Senate rules allow opponents of a nominee up to 30 hours of debate once the body halts the filibuster.On Monday night, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., filed cloture (an effort to end the filibuster) on the nominations of Mulvaney, Pruitt and four others. Those included the selections of Wilbur Ross to serve as Commerce secretary; Rep. Ryan Zinke, R-Mont., to become Interior secretary; Ben Carson to lead the Department of Housing and Urban Development; and former Texas Gov. Rick Perry for Energy secretary. On Tuesday, Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn, R-Texas, predicted senators would confirm Mulvaney and Pruitt before the Senate broke for the first major congressional recess of the year. But Cornyn hoped Republicans could forge a deal with Democrats to also confirm Ross and maybe a few others.Senate Democratic sources doubted an agreement was in the works. But never underestimate the power of the scent of jet fumes.Things often seem intractable in the Senate just before a big recess. Then, magically, everything comes together. Senators vote and burst out of the building faster than Russian fighters buzzing U.S. destroyers in the Black Sea.The Democrats’ tactic to protract the confirmation process helped them collect one trophy, though. Labor Secretary nominee Andy Puzder withdrew from consideration Wednesday. But in the end, Republicans killed Puzder’s nomination.Fox News is told there were as many as 12 Republican senators who harbored reservations about Puzder. It quickly became apparent that Puzder couldn’t win confirmation with such tight margins in the Senate.It’s not uncommon for new administrations to suffer a few Cabinet setbacks. President George W. Bush nominated Linda Chavez to be Labor secretary in 2001. She stepped aside over the issue of paying an undocumented immigrant to perform household chores.President Clinton burned through two attorney general nominations in 1993 before settling on Janet Reno. Both of Clinton’s picks, Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood, also had household worker employment problems.Without a big majority in the Senate and multiple close votes, it may have been inevitable that one of Trump’s nominees would implode. It was just the perfect storm for Puzder.And so the Senate is poised to confirm Mulvaney and Pruitt in the next day or two. The confirmation votes may be close. But you don’t get style points in the Senate.Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/13/key-senate-ally-grassley-takes-on-trump-white-house-in-twitter-rant.html
Key Senate ally Grassley takes on Trump, White House in Twitter rantAs chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Chuck Grassley has worked diligently to help President Trump, a fellow Republican, assemble a hand-picked Cabinet -- but the Iowa senator is making clear he won’t be a pushover for the White House.“ANSWER MY LETTER,” Grassley demanded Sunday of the White House, regarding requests to declassify a “secret” refugee deal between the Australian government and former President Barack Obama.Secret agreement between Obama&Australia 4US to take Aussie refugees shld b declassified/If can't be tell me why/WH:ANSWER MY LETTER— ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) February 12, 2017The demand was among seven tweets Grassley fired off this weekend, several directed at "Whoever monitors Twitter at the WH."Whoever monitors twitter at WH for businessman president Trump "when is WH going to be opened for public tours?" Mrs G wants to know— ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) February 12, 2017Whoever monitors twitter at WH for Pres Trump get on subject of my immediate tweet and stop overclassification & start declassifying— ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) February 11, 2017Whoever monitors twitter at the WH 4PresTrump to tell the businessman this tool will DRAIN THE SWAMP IF HE ALSO WII PROTECT WHISTLEBLOWERS— ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) February 11, 2017The 83-year-old Grassley is among Capitol Hill’s most prolific tweeters. But the content and tone of this weekend’s spree stood out, considering Grassley shepherded Alabama GOP Sen. Jeff Sessions through his panel's hearing on the way to Sessions being confirmed last week as U.S. attorney general.His committee soon will begin hearings on what is widely considered Trump’s most important pick -- Judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court.“We have a president that is messaging on Twitter and communicating that way,” Grassley said matter-of-factly Monday on Fox News' "America's Newsroom." “Seems to me, it’s legitimate for me to do it. … Twitter is a way of getting people thinking about things.”On Sunday, Grassley sent the White House tweets on a range of issues -- from plans to protect whistle-blowers to when the president’s home and office will be reopened for public tours -- in addition to his call for more transparency.“Whoever monitors Twitter at WH for President Trump read my previous 2tweets and hv this businessman understand TRANSPARENCY=ACCOUNTABILITY,” Grassley wrote in one of the tweets.A top Grassley concern is a deal Obama reportedly cut with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull just days before Trump’s November election victory to bring roughly 1,200 refugees to the United States from offshore Australia detention centers.The deal was purportedly a contentious topic when Trump and Turnbull spoke by phone earlier this month.“Grassley has always sort of struck me as more independent-minded Republican,” Tony Reiss, a GOP operative in South Dakota, said Monday.“Elections do have consequences, and the president should be able to fill his Cabinet and the courts as he sees fit. But classification shouldn't be used to cover up blunders, on either side of the aisle. Under normal operating procedures, the default should be openness and transparency.”
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/11/democrats-use-only-tactic-delay-to-turn-confirmation-runway-into-parking-lot.html
Democrats use only tactic, delay, to turn confirmation runway into parking lotIt’s been like air traffic control management in the Senate recently.Various Cabinet nominees stuck on the tarmac in a full ground stop. That could be Labor Secretary nominee Andrew Puzder, who finally has a confirmation hearing on Thursday.Some have pushed back from the gate. Maybe Rep. Ryan Zinke, R-Montana, whom President Trump tapped for Interior secretary. Ben Carson, the president’s nominee for Housing and Urban Development secretary.They’ve been through their hearings and are just waiting for debate on the floor. Others already taxied up to the active runway and are holding short. Former Texas GOP Gov. Rick Perry, up for Energy secretary.Some are waiting to be cleared for takeoff. WWE figure Linda McMahon who the president selected to run the Small Business Administration.You can almost hear the patter in the radio traffic. Senate ground. Nominee One Golf Echo Tango. West ramp. Ready for taxi with Bravo.Over the past week, four nominees found themselves locked in a holding pattern. They were still miles out from the airport, circling.In some cases, circling for days.SLIDESHOW: THE WEEK IN PICTURESThose nominees included Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin.They circled because Senate Democrats took full advantage of the institution’s rules, precedents and courtesies. Democrats stretched out debate, delaying confirmation votes via dilatory tactics. Such maneuvers are among the few options available to senators -- especially when they toil in the Senate minority and lack the votes to upend a nomination.“We are using everything we can to stop these awful nominees,” crowed Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. “Staying late and speaking. Press conferences. Facebook Live.”It all started more than a week ago. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., scheduled a rare 6:30 a.m. session last Friday for the Senate to take a procedural vote to break a Democratic filibuster on DeVos’s nomination.Senate Republicans voted to overcome the filibuster -- known as “invoking cloture.” That put DeVos on a glide-path toward confirmation. But Senate rules permit the opponents of an issue or a nominee to continue debate for up to 30 hours after that cloture vote.Democrats continued to debate DeVos a week ago Friday. But they didn’t burn off all the time. They didn’t even do so on Monday. The 30 hours finally expired at noon Tuesday.PROTESTERS BLOCK DEVOS FROM ENTERING DC SCHOOLOnly then could the Senate vote to confirm DeVos, 51-50 (good Van Halen album, but perhaps not as enjoyable as “Women and Children First” or “Diver Down”). Vice President Pence presided over the Senate, casting the tie-breaking ballot. It was the first time in U.S. history a vice president broke a tie to confirm a Cabinet secretary.Republicans hold a 52-48 advantage over Democrats in the Senate (two independent senators caucus with the Democrats). GOP Sens. Susan Collins, Maine, and Lisa Murkowski, Alaska, opposed DeVos, producing the 50-50 deadlock and pressing Pence into service.But elongating the process gave Democrats a chance to pluck off a third GOP senator to oppose DeVos. If three Republicans voted nay, Democrats would have defeated the DeVos nomination. There would have been no tie for Pence to break.“We thought we had some chance,” said Schumer when asked about the Democrats’ quest for a third Republican nay.Still, Schumer believed Democrats won -- even if they failed to torpedo DeVos.“It will serve as a magnifying glass,” he said.In other words, buying time helped Democrats define the nominees -- and perhaps tarnish them and Mr. Trump later.DeVos is damaged goods. And the narrative Democrats helped craft around her played out Friday morning when demonstrators temporarily blockaded the Education secretary from entering Jefferson Middle School, in Washington, D.C.“Shame!” hectored protesters, as she retreated to her black SUV.The die was cast.“We have set the predicate for who these nominees are,” Schumer claimed. “Every time DeVos does something that might harm public education, millions of Americans are looking over her shoulder.”Those who side with Trump might argue that Democrats are simply stalling nominees. There’s some truth to that. But Democrats reply they are simply exercising the parliamentary options available to them and which are afforded every senator.Let’s look at how senators can slow things down -- especially when compared to the House.First of all, the House is a “majoritarian” institution. A determined majority rules. However, the Founders feared the tyranny of the majority. So they set up the Senate to periodically favor the rights of the minority. Democrats exploit that premise now.Here’s how senators can slow things to a crawl:Take your average, garden variety bill. The bill’s author may have 99 senators who want to start debate. But there’s one senator who doesn’t.So, the writer of the bill must summon 16 senators to sign a “cloture petition” to overcome the objection of that sole senator on what’s called the “motion to proceed” to debate on the bill. If the sponsor files the cloture petition today (to end that senator’s filibuster and debate), it won’t “ripen” (meaning it’s available for a vote) until Monday.By rule, there’s always an intervening day between filing a cloture petition and a vote to end a filibuster (voting on cloture). Sunday serves as the intervening day. Cloture votes (to halt debate) need 60 yeas (51 on cabinet nominations and lower court judges).If the Senate invokes cloture to launch debate on the bill Monday, opponents get another 30 hours of debate time afterwards. In other words, the Senate won’t really begin debate on the bill until Tuesday.The bill at hand is important. Thus, the Senate wants to invest a couple of days debating the issue. That easily gets the Senate to Thursday.But that lone senator who hates the bill still stands in the way. So the author of the bill again must marshal 16 senators to sign a second cloture petition.This could be filed on Wednesday. Therefore, the second cloture vote (to end overall debate) doesn’t blossom until Friday. Remember, cloture requires an intervening day.So on Friday, the Senate takes a vote to bring ALL debate to a close and break that filibuster. If 60 senators (or 51, if the Senate is voting on an executive branch appointment other than the Supreme Court) vote yea, then the Senate is eventually headed toward final passage of the bill.But not before that one, recalcitrant senator finishes gumming up the works one last time. He or she gets 30 hours of debate once again, following the second cloture vote on Friday.That means the Senate probably doesn’t advance to a final vote to pass the bill until late in the day next Saturday. Final passage entails just a simple majority.So this is how Democrats were able to slow things up on nominees.With DeVos’s nomination on the docket, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., filed cloture petitions to end debate on the nominations of Sessions, Price and Mnuchin last week. The Senate cut off debate on the Sessions nomination Monday afternoon.Then the 30 hour meridians started to set in. That triggered a Wednesday evening confirmation vote for Sessions. Immediately after the Sessions confirmation, the Senate voted to end debate on Price. That spawned a 1:45 a.m. confirmation vote on Friday. Right after that, the Senate voted to invoke cloture on Mnuchin.Mnuchin could have faced a confirmation vote Saturday morning. But that roll call vote is now scheduled for 7 p.m. Monday.So that’s the holding pattern in the Senate. Nominations circling overhead. Others delayed at the gate. Some finally lumbering down the runway.It’s a crowded departure lounge at the Senate confirmation terminal. That’s because Senate Democrats think Trump’s nominees have a lot of baggage.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/09/schumer-and-dems-turn-fire-on-trump-labor-pick-after-sessions-battle-falls-short.html
Schumer and the Dems turn fire on Trump labor pick, after Sessions battle falls shortSenate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and his Democratic lieutenants refocused their energy Thursday on battling labor secretary nominee Andrew Puzder, after their public campaign against two controversial Cabinet picks failed to block their confirmation.Though President Trump and his Republican allies have blasted Senate Democrats for slow-walking his nominees, Schumer, D-N.Y., made it clear at a press conference Thursday they’re not finished yet -- and called on the president to withdraw Puzder’s name.“Remember the days when Republicans would actually nominate labor leaders to be head of the Department of Labor?” Schumer said, calling the nominee “one of the most anti-worker nominees to any Cabinet position.”“They ought to withdraw Puzder’s [nomination] before he further embarrasses this administration,” Schumer said.The demand comes after Democratic senators, despite spending days railing against their nominations, were unable to prevent now-Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions from being confirmed.Two Republicans joined all 48 Democrats in opposing DeVos earlier this week, but Vice President Pence broke the tie in her favor, in his capacity as president of the Senate. Sessions, a longtime Alabama senator, was confirmed Wednesday evening on a 52-47 vote following a raucous debate. He was sworn-in Thursday.The Senate turns next to the nominations of Rep. Tom Price for health secretary and Steve Mnuchin for treasury secretary.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., defended their credentials Thursday and urged the full chamber to confirm. Amid Democratic resistance, the Senate has confirmed just six of Trump’s core Cabinet secretaries, a historically slow pace for a new president.“The confirmation of any of President Trump’s cabinet nominees, it seems, will bring about untold destruction, the likes of which America has never seen,” Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said on Thursday, blasting Democrats’ broad opposition. “My colleagues appear to be more than willing to cast aside the traditions, respect, and assumptions of good faith that has long been the hallmark of the Senate confirmation process and of the Senate itself.”Puzder, though, is now attracting the most concentrated criticism from Senate Democrats, as he tries to address questions about conflicts of interest and other issues.He has proposed resigning as CEO of his fast food empire, selling off hundreds of holdings and recusing himself from government decisions in which he has a financial interest, according to his ethics filings with the government"I will not participate personally and substantially in any particular matter in which I know that I have a financial interest directly and predictably affected by the matter" without a waiver from government ethics officials, Andrew Puzder wrote in the nine-page filing, dated Tuesday and obtained by The Associated Press. Puzder is CEO of CKE Restaurants Inc., which owns such chains as Hardee's and Carl's Jr.Asked on a separate Senate questionnaire obtained Thursday whether he would "sever all connections with (his) present employer" if confirmed, Puzder answered, "Yes."A spokesperson for Tennessee GOP Sen. Lamar Alexander, whose committee will handle Puzder's confirmation hearing, confirmed that the panel had received the agreement with the Office of Government Ethics required of all presidential Cabinet nominees.The hearing was set for Feb. 16.Trump has called Puzder the “ideal candidate” to lead the department, citing his record boosting “the careers of thousands of Americans.”But Democrats are questioning how well Puzder could advocate for American workers atop the agency charged with enforcing protections, given his business empire. They are publicizing several unflattering stories from current and former employees of Puzder's company, and his hearing has been postponed several times. Puzder has said he opposes a big minimum wage hike, rules on overtime pay and other labor priorities.Puzder said on the questionnaire that from 2014 through 2016, he personally lobbied lawmakers and their staffers "to advocate on behalf of issues that are of importance to the restaurant industry." Puzder cited his firm's interest in menu labeling, franchise regulations, the Affordable Care Act and an Obama administration labor ruling that companies can be held responsible for labor violations committed by their contractors.Like several of the wealthy corporate figures who have joined Trump's Cabinet and agreed to sell off their vast assets to eliminate possible conflicts of interest, Puzder promised in his ethics agreement that he would sell off his CKE Restaurant Holdings partnership stock shares to his company. Puzder estimated the worth of those stock holdings at between $10 million and $50 million, according to his financial disclosures.Unlike the OGE-approved agreements of several other Trump Cabinet nominees, notably Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's, Puzder's does not include language that would place his sold-off holdings in a trust administered by an independent trustee. Instead, the government appears to be allowing Puzder to use an alternate route of insulating himself from his holdings by converting them into "non-conflicting assets" approved by ethics officials.Puzder said he expected to be able to sell more than 200 stocks, bonds and mutual fund holdings within 90 days, but warned that more than a dozen other investment funds with multiple underlying assets could take longer to sell.Puzder also has acknowledged having employed a housekeeper who was not authorized to work in the U.S. A spokesman later confirmed that the nominee fired her when he discovered her status, about five years ago, and paid the back-taxes regarding her employment after Trump nominated him.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/01/republicans-push-back-on-trumps-pick-for-education-secretary.html
Republicans push back on Trump's pick for Education secretaryIn back-to-back speeches from the Senate floor, a pair of Republican senators on Wednesday broke rank and said they’d oppose the nomination of Betsy DeVos as Education secretary.GOP Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski are the first Republicans to come out against one of President Trump’s Cabinet picks.“I was trying to get to yes, I couldn’t,” Murkowski said.Collins called DeVos “a product of her experience.”“She appears to view education through the lens of her experience promoting alternatives to public school education in Detroit and other cities,” Collins said.Despite the Republican pushback, White House press secretary Sean Spicer expressed confidence - “100 percent” - that DeVos  would be confirmed and added she was “unbelievably qualified” for the post.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s office told Fox News that they aren’t worried about her confirmation.If all of the other GOP senators support DeVos- as expected - and all Democrats oppose the nomination, DeVos would end up with a 50-50 vote in the Senate. If that happens, it would be up to Vice President Mike Pence to break the tie.DeVos, a billionaire charter school advocate, has emerged as a polarizing figure. The wealthy Republican donor has been denounced by Democrats – and now two Republicans - who have slammed her credentials.DeVos has never worked in the public school system nor has she sent her children to public school.Controversy surrounding DeVos increased Monday after she was accused of lifting several sentences or phrases from sources – including one from a top Obama administration civil rights official - without attribution in her written responses to questions from lawmakers on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.On Tuesday, the Senate committee voted along party lines to send her confirmation to the full Senate for final approval.A full Senate vote could come early next week.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/01/pelosi-rips-trumps-scotus-pick-as-republicans-weigh-nuclear-option.html
Pelosi rips Trump's SCOTUS pick, as Republicans weigh 'nuclear option'House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi launched into a blistering attack on President Trump’s Supreme Court pick Tuesday, accusing Judge Neil Gorsuch of being hostile to everything from clean air to children with autism – a hint of likely Democratic resistance, as some Republicans eye a potential “nuclear option.”Trump nominated Gorsuch to the Supreme Court on Tuesday, choosing an originalist judge seen by supporters to be in the mold of the late Associate Justice Antonin Scalia, whose death in February 2016 opened up the spot Gorsuch is now seeking to fill.Pelosi made her pointed remarks during a CNN town hall, in which she called Gorsuch “a very hostile appointment” and “well outside the mainstream of American legal thought.”"If you breathe air, drink water, eat food, take medicine or in any other way interact with the courts, this is a very bad decision," she said.“What saddens me the most as a mom and a grandmother, though, is his hostility toward children in school, children with autism,” Pelosi said. “He has ruled that they don’t have the same rights under the [Individuals With Disabilities Education Act] that they could reach their intellectual and social advancement under the law — he has said that doesn’t apply to them.”Pelosi does not get a say in Gorsuch’s confirmation, which is handled by the Senate, but her scathing remarks are a possible indicator of the hostility Gorsuch is likely to face. Sens. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., have already expressed their opposition to the pick.GraphiqThe potential Democratic opposition to the pick has some Senate Republicans digging in for a tough confirmation fight, including a possible change of Senate rules to lower the threshold for confirmation, with Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, warning that “all procedural options are on the table.”"The Democrats are not going to succeed in filibustering the Supreme Court nominee," Cruz told Politico.On "Fox & Friends" Wednesday, Cruz said that a Gorsuch pick was exactly what the American people wanted.“This election was in a very real sense a referendum on this seat,” he said. “I think the American people made that decision on Election Day and there’s a mandate coming out of the election.”Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who will be key in deciding if there is an effort to block Gorsuch, said Tuesday that “the burden is on Judge Neil Gorsuch to prove himself to be within the legal mainstream and, in this new era, willing to vigorously defend the Constitution from abuses of the Executive branch and protect the constitutionally enshrined rights of all Americans.” However, he added he has “serious doubts” as to whether Gorsuch can do this, as he called for setting a 60-vote bar for confirmation.Republicans hold a 52-48 majority in the Senate, meaning if Democrats filibuster, Republicans may struggle to find the eight Democrats needed to get the 60 votes needed to break it.But this opens Democrats up to accusations of obstructionism, and also could push the Republicans to use the “nuclear option” to change the rules to blunt the filibuster – something then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., did for lower court nominees in 2013.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., did not say whether he'd use the "nuclear option" in an interview with Fox News, but said: “We’re going to get the judge confirmed.”[Image: Senate majority leader urges Democrats to give Gorsuch an up or down vote]While Republicans did not block President Barack Obama’s nominations of Justices Kagan and Sotomayor, they did refuse to hold hearings for Judge Merrick Garland, whom Obama picked to fill the Scalia seat in 2016. They argued that a Supreme Court pick should not be made in an election year.This has, in turn, led some Democrats to call for outright obstructionism to Gorsuch in response.Dan Pfeiffer, a former Obama adviser, tweeted late Tuesday that Dems should “treat Trump’s SCOTUS pick with the exact same courtesy” they showed Garland. “Don’t flinch, don’t back down” he said.The Democrats should treat Trump's SCOTUS pick with the exact same courtesy the GOP showed Merrick Garland. Don't flinch, don't back down— Dan Pfeiffer (@danpfeiffer) February 1, 2017The New York Times editorial board also cited the Garland controversy in its opinion piece, calling Gorsuch “the nominee for a stolen seat.”Other Democrats have urged caution, with Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., noting that “we have a responsibility to do our jobs as elected officials.”“Just as I have all along, I urge my colleagues to put partisan politics aside and allow the vetting process to proceed,” he said in a statement.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/31/dems-force-vote-delay-on-key-trump-cabinet-picks.html
Dems force vote delay on key Trump Cabinet picksCongressional tensions flared Tuesday over President Trump’s Cabinet picks – and his executive order on immigration – as Democrats forced delays for committee votes on three major nominees, including attorney general pick Jeff Sessions.Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, announced Tuesday afternoon that his panel would push off a vote on Sessions until Wednesday, after lengthy Democratic speeches sidelined plans to take up the nomination by the end of the day.That was after Democrats boycotted a planned meeting of the Senate Finance Committee, forcing Republicans to indefinitely delay votes on the nominations of GOP Georgia Rep. Tom Price to be Health secretary and financier Steve Mnuchin to head the Treasury Department.At the White House, Press Secretary Sean Spicer called the delay tactics “ridiculous.”“The mere idea they’re not even showing up to hearings is truly outrageous,” he said.The Senate was moving on other fronts.The full chamber voted Tuesday afternoon, 93-6, to confirm former Labor secretary Elaine Chao, the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., to lead the Transportation Department.Earlier in the day, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee also advanced the nominations of Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke for Interior secretary and former Texas Gov. Rick Perry for Energy secretary. And a separate panel approved Betsy DeVos to lead the Education Department. The full Senate will still have to vote on those nominees.But elsewhere on Capitol Hill, Democrats were locking up consideration of more contentious nominees.In boycotting the Finance panel meeting, Democrats said they wanted more information on the nominees. They cited a report in The Wall Street Journal that Price received a discounted offer to buy stock in a biomedical company, which contradicted his testimony to Congress. They said another report showed documents revealing Mnuchin had not been truthful with the Senate about how his bank OneWest had handled home foreclosures.Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said he planned to reschedule the votes but did not say when. He said Democrats "ought to stop posturing and acting like idiots."Meanwhile, senators clashed during a lengthy meeting considering Sessions.The conservative senator from Alabama was an early backer of Trump, and during his confirmation hearing he was dogged by allegations of racism – something he strongly denies.But his nomination was further complicated by the fallout from Trump's controversial executive order suspending the U.S. refugee program and restricting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. On Monday night, Trump fired Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, a holdover from former President Barack Obama’s administration, when she defiantly refused to defend Trump’s controversial immigration order. Trump said Yates had betrayed the administration by not carrying out the order and replaced her with Dana Boente, a U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.Monday’s firing and escalating tension over Trump’s executive order made Tuesday’s meeting on Sessions particularly contentious. Democrats ultimately were able to use an obscure rule to effectively force a delay in the vote for at least another day.The committee’s top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, earlier took Sessions to task and tried to tie him to the controversial order and the Trump administration, as she announced her opposition.“Not one order, idea or pronouncement is meant to bring this country together, they only serve to drive us further apart,” Feinstein said. “It is in this context we are being asked to consider this nomination.”Feinstein also praised Yates and said standing up to Trump “took a steel spine.”“That is what an attorney general must be willing to do,” she said before adding she has “no confidence” Sessions would be able to stand up to the president.Sessions has denied he was involved in helping draft Trump’s immigration order.“Neither I, nor any of my current staff, had such a role,” he said.Two “Code Pink” protesters wearing pink shirts and in their 70s were dragged out of the hearing room after voicing their opposition to Sessions.A separate Senate committee took up the nomination Tuesday of DeVos to head up Education. Democrats and Republicans on the Senate Health, Education, Pensions and Labor Committee battled over the charter school activist and wealthy Republican donor’s credentials, before the panel advanced her nomination to the Senate floor.Washington Sen. Patty Murray, the top Democrat on the committee, said it was clear that DeVos is "the wrong choice."Murray charged that DeVos has spent her family's wealth to push "extreme anti-student ideology" siphoning money away from public schools "toward taxpayer funded private school vouchers, with little accountability, for just a few."Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., pushed back. He said he didn’t question the motives of his colleagues but thinks their concerns are “misplaced.”The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/30/tillerson-clears-senate-procedural-hurdle-democrats-delay-two-trump-nominations.html
Tillerson clears Senate procedural hurdle, Democrats delay two Trump nominationsPresident Donald Trump's pick for secretary of state cleared a key Senate procedural hurdle Monday as Democrats delayed scheduled committee votes on two other nominations.The Senate voted 56-43 to cap debate on the nomination of former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson as America's top diplomat at 30 hours. The nomination required the backing of 51 senators to remain on track. Three Democrats —Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Mark Warner of Virginia and Joe Manchin of West Virginia — as well as independent Sen. Angus King of Maine voted to end debate.Before the vote, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., pressed unsuccessfully for a delay until Tillerson answered for Trump's executive order barring individuals from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. for 90 days.A final vote to confirm Tillerson will likely be held Wednesday.Earlier Monday, the Senate Finance Committee pushed back a scheduled 6 p.m. vote on Trump's nomination of Steven Mnuchin as Treasury Secretary. That vote will now take place at 10 a.m. Tuesday. Democrats said they requested the delay to allow lawmakers to attend a candlelight vigil protesting Trump's so-called "extreme vetting" order.Mnuchin clashed with Democrats during a lengthy confirmation hearing on Jan. 19. He was accused of failing to protect thousands of homeowners from unnecessary foreclosures when he headed OneWest bank and for failing to disclose nearly $100 million in assets on forms he filed with the committee.Mnuchin called his failure to disclose assets an oversight. He said he was proud of his tenure at OneWest, saying he had worked to protect as many homeowners as possible from losing their homes to foreclosure.Opponents of Mnuchin's nomination have been running ads in states which were hit hard by foreclosures during the housing crisis in an effort to bring pressure on Republicans to join Democrats in opposing Mnuchin's nomination.On Monday, Warner, a member of the Finance Committee, announced his opposition to Mnuchin."Throughout the confirmation process, Mr. Mnuchin has failed to adequately demonstrate that he will be a forceful advocate for innovative policies that will make the U.S. economy work better for the majority of Americans," Warner said in a statement.Also Monday, the Senate Small Business & Entrepreneurship announced that the meeting to consider the nomination of Linda McMahon to head the Small Business Administration had been postponed. McMahon is best known for being the former President and CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment. The vote to advance her nomination is also expected Tuesday.Fox News' Chad Pergram and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/29/senate-democrats-bash-trumps-immigration-ban-emotional-schumer-vows-fierce-hill-opposition.html
Senate Democrats bash Trump's immigration ban; emotional Schumer vows fierce Hill oppositionSenate Democrats on Sunday attacked President Trump’s recently imposed ban on immigration from several mostly-Muslim countries -- calling the order unconstitutional and seizing on some refugees and green card holders being detained this weekend at U.S. airports to fuel their political outrage.“He has established a target of refugees,” Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, told “Fox News Sunday.”Trump on Friday issued an executive order that includes a 120-day suspension of the U.S. refugee program and a 90-day ban on travel to the United States by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen.Durbin spoke after a hectic Saturday at New York’s John. F. Kennedy International Airport and other airports across the country -- where dozens of refugees or people with green cards were detained or stopped for additional vetting.“They just sprung this on us,” Durbin said about the executive order. “Refugees are the most carefully vetted visitors who come into this country.”Durbin also thanked a Brooklyn judge (the first of several federal judges across the country) who late Saturday issued emergency orders to temporarily bar the administration from deporting people from the seven countries.Top White House officials late Saturday and early Sunday rushed to defend the program and pointed out that President Obama identified the seven countries from which immigration has been banned.“These are countries that have a history of training, harboring, exporting terrorists,” Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, said twice on “Fox News Sunday.”White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that 75 to 80 percent of Americans agree with the policy change, amid terror attacks in the United States and elsewhere around the world in which the perpetrators have been linked to such countries.“We don't want people that are traveling back and forth to one of these seven countries that harbor terrorists to be traveling freely back and forth between the United States and those countries,” Priebus said.Hours after Durbin spoke, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, at a press conference, vowed to fight the executive order “with every fiber of my being.”The New York lawmaker also argued that Trump’s order was “unconstitutional” and vowed Senate Democrats would try, in the GOP-controlled Congress, to reverse the order.“Mr. President, I’m here to tell you that I will fight this,” said Schumer, who sniffled back tears as he stood alongside several children and adult immigrants impacted by the ban.Trump also faces public opposition from at least a handful of congressional Republicans including Sens. Jeff Flake, of Arizona; Ben Sasse, of Nebraska, and Rob Portman, of Ohio."This was an extreme vetting program that wasn't properly vetted," Portman said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union."
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/26/senates-cabinet-slow-walk-riles-trump-previews-supreme-court-battle.html
Senate's Cabinet slow-walk riles Trump, previews Supreme Court battleArticle II, Section 2 of the Constitution declares that the president “shall nominate, and by with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other Public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the Supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States.”It just doesn’t say anything about how fast the Senate “shall” provide that advice and consent.Therein lies President Trump’s first frustration with the legislative branch of government.It’s too early for Trump to complain about a provision in this spending bill or that budget package. But the president’s initial taste of the legislative branch centers on nominations to his Cabinet and other key administration posts. And the Senate, being the Senate, has only approved four of his nominees.Senators okayed James Mattis as the new Pentagon chief and John Kelly as Homeland Security secretary just hours after the president’s inauguration last Friday. Senators approved Mike Pompeo as CIA director Monday night. Nikki Haley is now the U.S. representative at the United Nations.That’s it. No more until next week.We’ll see how much the pace of the “the world’s greatest deliberative body” could irritate the combustible new president – a business executive who demands speed and efficiency – not debate.Trump wanted Pompeo in place Saturday for his visit to the CIA. But Pompeo’s fate wasn’t decided until Monday.“They’re playing little political games,” groused the president at the CIA. “He was approved essentially.”Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., wanted the Senate to burn up to six hours debating Pompeo. The Oregon Democrat harbored reservations about Pompeo’s interest in expanded surveillance powers. Meantime, with the Senate not meeting on Inauguration Day until late afternoon, Republicans wanted to rush through and confirm Mattis, Kelly and Pompeo in one, fell swoop -- then book it to the inauguration balls.“I don’t see how we’re going to have a debate while everyone is trying to fit into their tux,” protested Wyden.As a result, the president didn’t get Pompeo to join him at the CIA for his photo op and had to wait for confirmation on Monday night.Trump may want to consider a new mantra. Perhaps “Make the Senate Fast Again.”Other nominations remain trapped in the Senate’s confirmation Phantom Zone.The only tool Democrats appear to have in their arsenal is delay. Democrats are no fools. They know the president isn’t used to sitting around waiting for the Senate to act. So, forcing the Senate to run various parliamentary traps could be a tactic to get under the skin of the chief executive and goad him into blurting something intemperate.Several nominees put up rocky confirmation performances – coupled with serious questions about their ethics. Consider the plights of Education Secretary pick Betsy DeVos, Office of Management Budget (OMB) Director nominee Rep. Mick Mulvaney, R-S.C., and Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., whom the president tapped to head the Department of Health and Human Services. It’s still possible any of those nominations could go sideways on the floor. But so far, all Democrats can do is make nominees – and Trump – bide their time.It’s ironic, really for Democrats. Not so long ago, there was a point where Democrats really could have derailed a number of the president’s nominees via a procedural gambit. But now, all Democrats can do is slow things down.The margin in the Senate is just four seats: 52-48 (two independent senators caucus with the Democrats). That means Republicans can only lose two votes per nominee (without a vote from Vice President Mike Pence, casting a ballot in his capacity as president of the Senate) and not need assistance from Democrats to confirm the president’s picks. It only takes a simple majority to confirm a nominee on the Senate floor. But in 2013, Senate Democrats took the extraordinary step of altering the Senate’s precedents. As a result, Democrats lowered the bar to end filibusters from 60 votes to a majority vote (often 51). The so-called “nuclear option” liberated some of President Obama’s administration and judicial nominations which languished under the 60-vote threshold. Dropping the procedural bar to a simple majority pried loose numerous nominations which were otherwise stalled.Of course, many Senate Democrats would like nothing more than to torpedo a few of Trump’s picks. But with 52 seats at their disposal, Republicans already have enough votes to stave off Democratic filibusters. Getting to 60 under the old regime would have been a different story.But all of this fighting is truly about something else. It’s the appetizer for the main course. Trump will announce his pick to succeed the late Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court. And keep in mind that when Democrats executed the nuclear option, they did so specifically without touching the procedural bar for Supreme Court nominees. Supreme Court nominees still require 60 votes to overcome a filibuster.Never before has the Senate filibustered a Supreme Court nominee. The Senate sidetracked the nomination of Associate Justice Abe Fortas to become chief justice on a procedural vote which failed to garner 60 yeas. But Fortas was already on the high court.“Clearly what they did with Garland was wrong,” barked Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., when asked about Obama’s pick to succeed Scalia, Merrick Garland. Senate Republicans never granted Garland a hearing, let alone a floor vote.McConnell observed that Presidents Clinton and Obama both got the nominations of Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan through the Senate in their first terms with no problem. He expects the same for Trump’s nominee.The Cabinet fights are just the appetizer. The Supreme Court nomination will be the main course.Capitol Attitude is a weekly column written by members of the Fox News Capitol Hill team. Their articles take you inside the halls of Congress, and cover the spectrum of policy issues being introduced, debated and voted on there.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/19/tensions-flare-over-dem-pushback-on-trump-nominees.html
Tensions flare over Dem pushback on Trump nomineesTensions flared over Democrats’ resistance to President-elect Donald Trump’s Cabinet nominees on the eve of his inauguration, as senators traded jabs on the sidelines of his Treasury pick’s confirmation hearing and the transition team squared off from afar with the chamber’s Democratic boss.Incoming Press Secretary Sean Spicer said at a pre-inaugural briefing Thursday there’s “no excuse” for what he called “delay tactics” in confirming Trump’s team, as Republicans push to have as many as seven nominees confirmed right away.But Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., while denying they’re trying to drag out the process, said Thursday that Democrats only expect to vote Friday on Homeland Security secretary nominee John Kelly and Defense secretary nominee James Mattis.Meanwhile, the confirmation hearing for Steve Mnuchin as Treasury secretary turned feisty as lawmakers grilled him on his banking career – and bickered over one Republican’s joke gone bad.The former Goldman Sachs banker’s hearing got off to a shaky start when Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., joked he should give ranking member Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a Valium pill for the questioning.“Senator Wyden, I’ve got a Valium pill here that you might want to take before the second round,” Roberts said. “Just a suggestion, sir.”Ohio Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown butted in and fired back, saying he hopes the “comment about Valium doesn’t set the tone for 2017 in this committee.” He added, “This is just outrageous.”After a minute of back-and-forth bickering, Wyden, the committee’s top Democrat, said that “we have many colleagues waiting.”Roberts snapped, “Fine Ron, I’m done.”Nearly all of the Democrats on the committee as well as one Republican, Sen. Dean Heller, took Mnuchin to task for more than three hours of questioning – then went on a break – and returned for round two.The tone was in keeping with the tense nature of several recent Cabinet hearings, which fueled Spicer's criticism of the process on Thursday.Wyden criticized Mnuchin over his use of a “dynasty trust” which “shields tens of millions of dollars from taxes.” He also chastised the New York banker for using a tax-exempt foundation to push for the approval of his bank’s merger.As questioning continued, the staff for Democrats on the committee circulated a memo that claimed Mnuchin failed to initially disclose close to $100 million of his assets on disclosure documents sent to the Senate Finance Committee. The memo also claimed he forgot to mention his role as a director for an investment fund located in a tax haven.Democrats pounced and said the omissions should disqualify Mnuchin as a suitable fit for Treasury secretary.“The Treasury secretary ought to be somebody who works on behalf of all Americans, including those who are still waiting for the economic recovery to show up in their communities,” Wyden said. “When I look at Mr. Mnuchin’s background, it’s a stretch to find evidence he’d be that kind of Treasury secretary.”Wyden also turned his attention to Mnuchin and accused the Wall Street banker of putting “more vulnerable people on the street faster than just about anybody else” during widespread foreclosures on homeowners across the country.Mnuchin said that after he was nominated by Trump as Treasury secretary he had “been maligned as taking advantage of others’ hardships in order to earn a buck.”“Nothing could be further from the truth,” he said, adding, “I was committed to loan modifications intended to stop foreclosures. I ran a ‘Loan Modification Machine.’ Whenever we could do loan modifications, we did them.”Mnuchin told the Senate Finance Committee that his bank extended over 100,000 loan modifications to borrowers who had fallen behind in their mortgage payments.Mnuchin said whenever possible OneWest offered loan modifications using guidelines from a variety of government programs, but "unfortunately, not all of the homes could be saved through these programs and despite my best efforts, some were sadly subject to foreclosure."After being nominated for the Treasury job in November, Mnuchin said his bank's foreclosures reflected the fact that before he took over the failed IndyMac, it had accumulated one of the worst portfolios of bad mortgage loans "in the history of time."A group of 10 Democratic senators led by Sen. Elizabeth Warren participated in a forum Wednesday to hear testimony from some of the people who lost their homes after Mnuchin's bank foreclosed."OneWest was notorious for its belligerence and for its cruelty," Warren said.Liberal groups began airing a television ad on the foreclosures seeking to bring pressure on five Republican senators, including Sens. Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Dean Heller of Nevada, who are both members of the Finance Committee, to vote against Mnuchin."Steven Mnuchin, the foreclosure king, made millions by taking people's homes with no regard to anything but his own bottom line," said Stephanie Taylor, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, one of the groups running the ad.But Mnuchin's supporters include Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. He called Mnuchin a "leader and a manager through his career, demonstrating an ability to make tough decisions and to be accountable."Mnuchin, who as Treasury secretary would serve as the administration's chief economic spokesman, faced questions about Trump's ambitious plans to double the country's growth rate through tax cuts, reducing government regulations and boosting government spending on infrastructure projects.The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/05/09/firing-fallout-media-jump-on-trump-for-dumping-comey.html
Firing fallout: Media jump on Trump for dumping ComeyFor all the questions swirling around President Trump’s abrupt decision to fire James Comey, one stands out above all:Why now?If the administration rationale—that the FBI director botched the investigation of Hillary Clinton last summer—is accurate, why didn’t the president-elect dump him during the transition?To say there is media skepticism about this rationale would be a colossal understatement.In the hours after the bombshell announcement, Fox’s Charles Krauthammer said the explanation was “highly implausible” and “almost inexplicable.” MSNBC’s Chris Matthews branded it the “Tuesday night massacre,” likening it to Richard Nixon’s Saturday night firing of the Watergate special prosecutor, because Trump “fired the guy investigating his team.” CNN’s Jeff Toobin called it a “grotesque abuse of power.”The journalistic assumption—pushed by Democrats like Chuck Schumer, who demanded a special prosecutor—is that Trump dumped Comey to impede the FBI’s investigation of Trump associates and any improper contacts with Russia.Let’s take a deep breath and look at what we know.Trump says he relied on the recommendation of Jeff Sessions (who has recused himself from the Russia probe) and the new deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein.Indeed, Trump brought up the probe in his letter to Comey: “While I appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation,” he agreed with DOJ’s judgment that “you are not able to effectively lead the bureau.”Rosenstein’s memo said Comey “usurped” the attorney general’s authority last July by holding a news conference once had decided not to bring an indictment against Clinton. That included “derogatory information,” and “we never release it gratuitously.”The memo also said Comey should not have announced the reopening of the Clinton probe last October because for prosecutors, “silence is not concealment.” And Rosenstein said his view was shared by DOJ officials from Democratic as well as Republican officials.Comey has little support in Washington, having angered Republicans for not prosecuting Clinton and Democrats for throwing that monkey wrench at the end of the campaign.But the erupting debate is all about Trump. The president fired the head of the FBI because he wasn’t nice to Hillary? Who will Trump appoint to run the bureau, and can that person be credible in taking over the Russia investigation (which may have been going nowhere in any event). Will it smell like a coverup?Trump knew this would be an explosive move, and he was willing to take the heat.But just when it seemed that the administration was settling down to cruising speed, the Comey firing is going to dominate the news for weeks to come.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/20/think-tank-with-ties-to-putin-reportedly-had-plans-to-sway-election-in-trumps-favor.html
Think tank with ties to Putin reportedly had plans to sway election in Trump's favorA Moscow-based think tank controlled by a Russian official appointed by President Vladimir Putin reportedly hatched a plan to increase Donald Trump’s chances to win the presidency.Reuters, citing three current and four former U.S. officials, reported Wednesday that the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies provided a framework for top Russian officials on how to sway the U.S. election. Five officials told Reuters the institute is the Kremlin’s in-house foreign policy think tank.The report said the think tank produced two documents. The first was released to the upper reaches of the Russian government, the report said.The document reportedly said the Kremlin should launch a propaganda campaign on social media and Russian-backed news that stressed the point that the smart choice for president would be a candidate with a softer approach to Moscow.The classified document called for state-backed news outlets to get the message out, the report said.The think tank’s opinion on the approach apparently shifted by October, when Hillary Clinton appeared to be gaining distance on Trump. The second document said it would be best to increase its message on voter fraud and to attack Clinton’s reputation.These documents were acquired by U.S. intelligence officials and were the basis of what led U.S. officials to blame Russia for meddling, the report said. The sources declined to comment on how the documents were obtained. Reuters reported that U.S. intelligence agencies also declined to comment on them. The report was not independently confirmed by Fox News.The think tank said in a statement to The Tass Russian News Agency that the report is incorrect."Unfortunately, the number of slanderous remarks against Russia has been growing recently but those making such remarks wrongly perceive the world," the center said.Putin has denied any interference in the U.S. election, and Trump said the Kremlin’s activities did not play a role in the election outcome. There is no evidence thus far that Trump or his associates knew about Russia’s effort during the campaign. The FBI and lawmakers are investigating.Trump recently said that U.S.-Russia relations "may be at an all-time low," and that "right now we're not getting along with Russia at all."The comment underscored long-standing difficulties that have plagued the two nations' attempts at greater understanding since the days of their World War II alliance. The Cold War may be over, but from Eastern Europe to the Middle East, Washington and Moscow don't see the world the same way.The Associated Press contributed to this report
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/04/19/democrats-georgia-blunder-resist-trump-is-not-winning-strategy.html
Democrats' Georgia blunder: 'Resist Trump' is not a winning strategyIn the special election for Georgia’s Sixth District Congressional seat, Democrat Jon Ossoff has fallen short of the 50 percent threshold needed to win the seat out-right, triggering a runoff in June.Ossoff’s candidacy and failure to secure the seat in the first round of voting, despite holding an $8.3 million war-chest, is the quintessential example of why the Democrats’ strategy of resisting Trump at every step is imprudent and that the more effective way to win in a solidly Republican district is with a positive agenda of change.Today, the Democratic party is deeply fractured. While some pragmatic leaders continue to fight for the traditional Democratic values which have long-defined our party, the “resistance” to President Trump is more concerned with obstructing Republicans and has no plans to enact the economic policies or health care reforms that hard-working Americans deserve.In his Congressional campaign, Jon Ossoff has generally said the right things, often appears to be positioned as a moderate, and has even suggested that he would not be “campaigning across the district talking about Donald Trump at every event.”However, these aspects of Ossoff’s candidacy do not change the underlying narrative that has catapulted his campaign to national prominence. Above all, Ossoff’s digital media campaign has centered on the slogan, “Make Trump Furious,” which has summarily helped him raise millions of dollars from nearly 200,000 individual donations. Uniquely, these donations are primarily in small dollar amounts averaging $43 and have come in from out of state.Ossoff needs more than a negative, anti-Trump message to emerge victorious in June. It is clear that this election will be more about message than money and Karen Handel, Ossoff’s June opponent and former Georgia Secretary of State, is independent of President Trump and will not be associated with him at all.In terms of Ossoff’s positioning though, if not for President Trump’s extraordinarily low approval ratings in the first 100 days of his administration, Ossoff would likely be nowhere.Further, now that Ossoff has been unable to attain 50 percent of the vote despite Democrats getting maximum attention for their turnout in recent special elections, Ossoff’s chances in a head-to-head race against Handel are limited. After all, going back to 1979, Georgia’s sixth district has been represented by three of the state’s most prominent Republicans: Speaker Newt Gingrich, Senator Johnny Isakson, and Secretary Tom Price.In November 2016, Price won this solidly Republican district by more than 20 points and President Trump narrowly won the district as well.In the coming months, the Trump resistance movement may continue to get broad attention and liberal voters may be more mobilized than they were in November 2016, but their unflinching desire to obstruct is not an effective governing strategy.In the past, Republicans have offered compelling, alternative policies when faced with a Democratic majority, most notably through the 1994 Contract with America, as well as the more recent Tea Party Movement.The current Democratic minority does not seek to offer alternatives to Republican policies in this way, but instead promotes resistance at every step and blocking anything that comes from the White House.If not by 2018, certainly by 2020, this non-strategy will not only destabilize the Democratic party’s future, but also cripple our nation in the process, leaving key constituencies to suffer the consequences.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/07/us-officials-probing-russias-role-in-syria-chemical-attacks.html
US officials probing Russia's role in Syria chemical attacksSenior U.S. military officials said Friday the Pentagon is looking into whether Russia played a role in the chemical weapon attack in Syria that prompted retaliatory action from the Trump administration.The U.S. officials said they were reviewing evidence regarding the attack on the northern Syrian town of Khan Sheikhoun, where more than 80 people were killed.They said a drone belonging either to Russia or Syria was seen hovering over the site of the chemical weapons attack Tuesday after it happened.The drone returned late in the day as citizens were going to a nearby hospital for treatment. The hospital was bombed shortly afterward, officials said, possibly in an effort to cover up evidence of chemical weapons usage.The U.S. says a sarin-like nerve agent was used. Syria denies the claim. And the Kremlin says Syria's government wasn't responsible.The U.S. officials also said they're aware of Russians with chemical weapons expertise who've been in Syria.The United States and Russia, meanwhile, will maintain a hotline aimed at preventing midair collisions of their warplanes in Syria, senior U.S. military officials said Friday, contradicting Moscow's claims that it has suspended the "de-confliction" talks in protest of America's cruise missile strikes on a Syrian air base.Officials blamed Russia for failing to control the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons or to account for chemical agents that were supposed to have been eliminated under a 2013 agreement, and questioned whether Russia may have been complicit in Tuesday's horrifying strike that involved the use of a sarin-like nerve gas.In Moscow, the Russian government on Friday initially announced it would cut the hotline that was established after Russia joined Syria's civil war in 2015 to help Syrian President Bashar Assad's government against opposition groups.The hotline's primary intent is to ensure Russian planes conducting combat missions in Syria's skies don't stumble into an accident or confrontation with aircraft flown by the U.S.-led coalition fighting an Islamic State insurgency in the north of the country.Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova reportedly said later Friday that Moscow would consider reactivating the memorandum with the United States on preventing air incidents in Syria."Today, everyone heard the statement of the Defense Ministry, which gave a clear assessment of this step and what motivated it," she was quoted as saying on Russian television station NTV. "We will proceed from the real situation."But the senior U.S. military officials, who weren't authorized to speak publicly on the matter and demanded anonymity, said U.S.-Russian discussions have continued since Thursday night's attack on the Syrian military base. They said American officials asked to make sure the military talks would continue, and the Russians said they would.Pressed on whether the Russians were actively participating in the safety calls, one official said conversations were ongoing.Neither side had previously expressed an interest in severing the line of communication. Even when the U.S., under President Barack Obama, briefly halted talks with Russia on a Syrian peace process, both sides maintained the military communications. Eliminating the hotline could enhance the risk of an accident involving the two nuclear powers.Fox News' Lucas Tomlinson and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/26/trumps-choice-to-be-secretary-navy-withdraws-nomination.html
Trump's choice to be secretary of the Navy withdraws nominationPresident Trump's nominee to be secretary of the Navy said Sunday that he was withdrawing from consideration for the post.In a statement released by the Pentagon, Philip Bilden he determined that he would not be able to satisfy the Office of Government Ethics requirements without what he called "undue disruption and materially adverse divestment of my family's private financial interests."Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said in a statement that he would make a recommendation to Trump for a nominee in the coming days."While I am disappointed, I understand and his respect his decision," Mattis said, "and know that he will continue to support our nation in other ways."Those people would be wrong. Just spoke with him and he is 100% commited to being the next SECNAV pending Senate confirm. https://t.co/AfRZfQQCzG— Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 18, 2017Rumors of Bilden's withdrawal had been widely reported in recent days, but were denied by White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer. The Pentagon also issued a statement Feb. 19 saying that Bilden had assured Mattis he remained committed to serving as Navy secretary if confirmed by the Senate and that Mattis was confident Bilden was "the right leader" to rebuild the Navy and Marine Corps.Bilden was an intelligence officer in the Army Reserve from 1986-1996. He relocated to Hong Kong to set up an Asian presence for HarbourVest Partners LLC, a global private equity management firm. Bilden recently retired from HarbourVest Partners after 25 years.Bilden's withdrawal raises similar issues to that of Vincent Viola, Trump's nominee for Army secretary who stepped aside earlier this month.Viola cited his inability to successfully navigate the confirmation process and Defense Department rules concerning family businesses.A military veteran and former Airborne Ranger infantry officer, he was also the founder of several businesses, including the electronic trading firm Virtu Financial. He also owns the National Hockey League's Florida Panthers and is a past chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange.Fox News' Serafin Gomez and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/democrats-pro-life_us_58fcd709e4b06b9cb917a7ee?section=us_politics
Top Democrats, Bernie Sanders Defend Anti-Abortion Members Of Their PartyWASHINGTON ― Top Democratic leaders said Sunday that their party welcomes people who are pro-life, despite the party being strongly defined by its support for abortion rights.“Of course,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”“I have served many years in Congress with members who have not shared my very positive, my family would say ‘aggressive’, position on promoting a woman’s right to choose,” she said. “But what you asked... was about what unifies Democrats. Our values unify us. We are unified with our commitment to America’s working families about job creation, about budget policies that invest in the future, good-paying jobs.”Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said it’s fine if an elected Democratic official personally opposes abortion, but from a policy standpoint, he or she must support a woman’s right to choose.“When it comes to the policy position, I think we need to be clear and unequivocal,” Durbin said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “As long as they are prepared to back the law, Roe vs. Wade, prepared to back women’s rights as we have defined them under the law, then I think they can be part of the party.”The issue is in the forefront because of recent drama over the Democratic National Committee last week endorsing a Democratic candidate for mayor of Omaha, Nebraska, who  has a record of voting against abortion rights . Among other progressives, NARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse Hogue  torched the DNC  for making a “politically stupid” move.Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) went to Omaha last week to rally for Heath Mello, who is trying to unseat the city’s current GOP mayor. He said Sunday that he didn’t think the intraparty scuffle was that big of a deal.“I have a 100 percent lifetime pro-choice voting record,” Sanders said on CBS’ “Face The Nation.”“But if we are going to become a 50-state party, if you’re going to go to Omaha, Nebraska, which has a Republican governor, two Republican senators, all Republican Congress people, Republican legislature, you know what?” he continued. “If you have a rally in which you have the labor movement, and the environmentalists, and Native Americans, and the African American community, and the Latino community coming together, saying, ‘We want this guy to become our next mayor,’ should I reject going there to Omaha? I don’t think so.”Sanders pointed out that Mello’s opponent is also anti-choice.“And she is inviting Scott Walker, one of the most reactionary, anti-choice governors, anti-labor governors, anti-education governors, to campaign for her,” he said. “The choice is clear. And I hope very much the Democratic candidate there wins.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-ap-interview_us_58fdb6fae4b06b9cb917f7ca?section=us_politics
7 Baffling Moments From Donald Trump’s AP InterviewPresident Donald Trump lied about his policy accomplishments, interrupted himself, and went off on a series of incoherent rants during a recent interview with The Associated Press.The AP released part of the interview last week, but made a fuller transcript available late Sunday. You can read it in full here, but beware: It’s a doozy. The phrase “Donald Trump is unintelligible” was even a top trending topic on Twitter early Monday ― a reference to the 16 times during the one-on-one interview where whatever the president said was apparently impossible to transcribe.Here are some of the interview’s most bizarre moments:Shunning reality, Trump said he’s “mostly there” on fulfilling the promises of his first 100 days.With the 100-day mark looming on April 29, the president has fallen short on every one of the legislative goals he set last year in his “100-day action plan.” Most notably, the Republican health care bill that Trump campaigned extensively for went down in flames. He has also failed to secure funding for the wall he’s hoping to build along the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump claimed he’s never supported WikiLeaks, despite having repeatedly said otherwise.When WikiLeaks published hacked Democratic Party emails during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump brought it up at his rallies at every opportunity. But on Friday, when asked about reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions is planning to pursue charges against WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, Trump sang a different tune.“Never heard of Wikileaks, never heard of it,” he told the AP. “When Wikileaks came out, all I was just saying is, ‘Well, look at all this information here, this is pretty good stuff’... I don’t support or unsupport.”This is what he said back in October:Donald Trump, October 10, 2016: "This just came out. WikiLeaks! I love WikiLeaks!" pic.twitter.com/KWP7X2aLiN— WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) April 21, 2017Trump said the Electoral College is “very difficult for a Republican to win” because it’s “so skewed” toward Democrats. It’s not.Tell that to former Presidents George W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Richard Nixon, etc. As Newsweek explained last year, the Electoral College may actually have a slight bias toward Republicans, since Democratic voters are more likely to be concentrated in major cities:Increasingly, Democratic voters live in large urban areas, and are concentrated in several parts of the country. There are more of them, somewhat, but they live in relatively compact geographic areas. This gives Republicans a mild advantage in the electoral college; Republican voters are more spread out, and the Electoral College system potentially over-represents them slightly as a part of the overall population.He admitted that when he bashed NATO during his presidential campaign, he didn’t actually know what the alliance did. He also erroneously said that “back when they did NATO there was no such thing as terrorism.”NATO was founded in 1949, but terrorism as a concept has been around for thousands of years. The term itself is rooted in the bloodshed of 18th-century post-revolution France.Describing a meeting with Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Trump offered the following word salad:“Well he said, you’ll be the greatest president in the history of, but you know what, I’ll take that also, but that you could be. But he said, will be the greatest president but I would also accept the other. In other words, if you do your job, but I accept that. Then I watched him interviewed and it was like he never even was here. It’s incredible. I watched him interviewed a week later and it’s like he was never in my office. And you can even say that.”Trump was talking, sort of, about an encounter he had with Cummings in March. According to Trump, the Maryland Democrat told him he’d be one of the greatest presidents in U.S. history. According to Cummings, that’s not exactly how it went down.He claimed the U.S.-Mexico border wall is “not going to be that expensive.”Trump’s own estimate of the wall’s cost has dramatically shifted in the nearly two years since he first proposed it. Sometimes it’s $4 billion, sometimes it’s $12 billion. In his interview with the AP, Trump said “I think I’ll do it for $10 billion or less.” But experts, including in a Department of Homeland Security internal report, have suggested the actual cost could be over $20 billion.He abruptly interrupted himself to offer AP reporter Julie Pace a soda.Presented without comment:TRUMP: [Chinese] President Xi [Jinping], we have a, like, a really great relationship. For me to call him a currency manipulator and then say, “By the way, I’d like you to solve the North Korean problem,” doesn’t work. So you have to have a certain flexibility, Number One. Number Two, from the time I took office till now, you know, it’s a very exact thing. It’s not like generalities. Do you want a Coke or anything?
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-supreme-court-dinner_us_58fcfa9be4b018a9ce5c241d?section=us_politics
Trump Postpones Dinner With Supreme Court JusticesPresident Donald Trump will sit down for dinner with the justices of the U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday evening, according to the White House.It’s not clear whether all members of the court will attend, but newly confirmed Justice Neil Gorsuch, whom Trump nominated, is expected to join the president, the White House said on Sunday.While such a gathering between the members of the executive and the judicial branch may seem unusual, it’s not unprecedented. President-elect Barack Obama and Vice President-elect Joe Biden paid a visit to the Supreme Court in January 2008, just days before assuming office.Presidents have also regularly hosted members of the high court for dinner. According to Julie Silverbrook, the executive director of the Constitutional Sources Project, “the practice appears to be quite common.”This particular dinner may be more awkward than others, however. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg was sharply critical of Trump during the presidential campaign, calling him a “faker” with a big ego who ought to release his tax returns. Trump responded by saying her mind was “shot” and urging her to resign.On Sunday, Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) noted the meeting could present potential conflicts of interest, since the Trump administration is involved in several legal battles concerning presidential power and immigration this year ― including a challenge to Trump’s travel ban from a federal judge in Hawaii.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/congress-returns-to-work-as-deadline-looms-to-avert-government-shutdown_us_58fdf223e4b06b9cb9185184?section=us_politics
Congress Returns To Work As Deadline Looms To Avert Government ShutdownWASHINGTON (Reuters) - With a deadline looming this week to avert a U.S. government shutdown, Congress returns to work on Monday as President Donald Trump leans on Democrats to include funding for his promised border wall with Mexico in spending legislation.The Republican president took to Twitter on Sunday to warn Democrats that the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, could soon lose essential funding without Democratic support for a congressional spending plan to keep the government running.Should talks fail, the government would shut down on Saturday, Trump’s 100th day in office. Trump, whose national approval rating hovered around 43 percent in the latest Reuters/Ipsos polling, is seeking his first big legislative victory.“Obamacare is in serious trouble. The Dems need big money to keep it going - otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone would have thought,” Trump said in a Twitter post.The healthcare law was former Democratic President Barack Obama’s signature domestic policy achievement, which Republicans are trying to repeal and replace.The White House says it has offered to include $7 billion in Obamacare subsidies that allow low-income people to pay for health insurance in exchange for Democratic backing for $1.5 billion in funding to start construction of the barrier on the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump made the wall a major element of his presidential campaign, touting its ability to help curb the flow of illegal immigrants and drugs into the United States.The federal government’s funding is set to expire at 12:01 a.m. on Saturday. A spending resolution would need 60 votes to clear the 100-member Senate, where Republicans hold 52 seats.Asked if Trump would sign a spending bill that does not include money for the wall, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney told Fox News on Sunday: “We don’t know yet.”Internal estimates from the Department of Homeland Security have placed the total cost of a border barrier at about $21.6 billion.Trump has said Mexico will repay the United States for the wall if Congress funds it first. But he has not laid out his plan to compel the Mexicans to pay, which Mexico’s government has insisted it will not do.‘FLY IN THE OINTMENT’A Republican congressional aide said Democrats may agree to some aspects of the border wall, including new surveillance equipment and access roads, estimated to cost around $380 million.“But Democrats want the narrative that they dealt him a loss on the wall,” the aide said, adding it would be difficult to bring any Democrats on board with new construction on the southwest border.Democrats showed no sign of softening their opposition to wall funding on Sunday and sought to place responsibility for any shutdown squarely on Trump and Republicans who control the House of Representatives and the Senate.Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer warned Trump to stay out of the way if he wanted lawmakers to reach a deal before the deadline.Schumer told a news conference on Sunday that aid negotiations between Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate were going well.“The only fly in the ointment is that the president is being a little heavy handed, and mixing in and asking for things such as the wall,” Schumer said.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obama-chicago-live-video_us_58fe0066e4b018a9ce5cedc0?section=us_politics
Obama Makes First Major Appearance Since Leaving The White HouseCHICAGO (Reuters) - Former U.S. President Barack Obama  on Monday makes his first major appearance since leaving office, having chosen Chicago, the city where his political career started, to emerge from a three-month hiatus from the public eye.Obama  will meet youth leaders and promote community organizing near the same South Side neighborhoods where his own activism blossomed and propelled him to two terms in the White House that ended with Donald Trump’s inauguration on January 20.Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who served as Obama ’s first White House chief of staff, said that he was proud that Obama  picked Chicago to make his last speech as president and the first in his post-presidency.“I think it reflects his emotional, as well as his intellectual, commitment to this city and seeing this city as his home,” he said.Obama ’s continued connection to Chicago is important to the city, which has global aspirations as well as a palpable insecurity about its place in the world.During the last year of Obama ’s second term, Chicago laid claim to its share of his legacy by beating out Hawaii and New York as the site of his presidential library.Obama , who still owns a home in Chicago, was raised in Hawaii. The former president and his wife Michelle are expected to move from Washington to New York once their younger daughter, Sasha, graduates from high school.David Axelrod, a former top political adviser to Obama , said the decision to house the library in Chicago should have eased any concerns that its residents may have had about the former Democratic president’s commitment to the city.But Monday’s event, he said, is another important sign of the former president’s strong links to Chicago.“He’s going to be more visible moving forward,” he said. “I think this is clearly a coming-out.”Reverend Michael Pfleger, a social justice activist who heads a large South Side Roman Catholic church, said a prominent Obama  presence could help the nation’s third-largest city confront some of the thorny problems it faces.Chief among them is a spike in gun violence, an issue that Trump has highlighted as a sign of lawlessness and the failure of the Democratic politicians who have long run Chicago.“It’s his life, and he’s not in elected office right now, so he can do what he wants,” Pfleger said. “But I’d love to see him engage in his home of Chicago. He could make a huge difference.”Civil Rights activist Jesse Jackson said Obama  could use his powerful platform to address stark inequalities in Chicago schools, housing and employment, and to advocate for reinvestment in blighted neighborhoods.Monday’s event takes place on the South Side campus of the University of Chicago, where Obama  once taught constitutional law. It is intended “to encourage and support the next generation of leaders driven by strengthening communities,” according to a statement.Since leaving office, Obama  has kept a relatively low public profile, taking vacations in Palm Springs, California and the British Virgin Islands, where he indulged in the sport of kite-boarding while vacationing with British billionaire Sir Richard Branson.Together with his wife, who grew up on Chicago’s South Side, the former president recently struck a two-book, $65 million memoir deal. He is expected to travel to Berlin to meet with German Chancellor Angela Merkel next month.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/new-survey-shows-bernie-is-right-young-americans-want_us_58fd0314e4b0f420ad99c918?section=us_politics
New Survey Shows Bernie Is Right: Young Americans Want To Reverse Runaway InequalityA new survey conducted by the Runawayinequality.org Educational Network shows that younger Americans (ages 18-40) overwhelmingly support bold proposals to reverse inequality―- Sanders-type policies such as Medicare for all, free higher education, ending mass incarceration, wealth taxes on multi-millionaires, financial speculation taxes on Wall Street, public banks, immigrants rights, worker rights, a guaranteed job at a living wage, campaign finance reform, and a sustainable environment.Meanwhile, the Trump administration is accelerating inequality. The billionaire appointees, the Goldman Sachs economic advisors, the hollow healthcare and tax proposals all are designed to move more money into the hands of the few.Unfortunately, the mainstream Democrats are hardly better when in comes to runaway inequality.Over the last 37 years, America’s top 10 percent saw their incomes rise by 115 percent and the top 1 percent saw an incredible rise of 198 percent. Meanwhile, the bottom half of all American earners not only failed to see any gain at all, but their incomes actually declined by 1 percent from 1978 to 2015, according to research by Thomas Piketty.During the Obama years “the top 1 percent of families captured 52 percent of total real income growth per family from 2009 to 2015 while the bottom 99 percent of families got only 48 percent of total real income growth,” reports inequality expert, Emanuel SaezMost politicians and pundits throw their hands up in despair. They argue there is really nothing we can do about rising inequality because of the powerful impacts of global competition and automation. Those who are falling behind just don’t have the skills needed to prosper in the modern world. Life is unfair. Get used to it.But these fatalists are dead wrong. There is ample evidence to show that many other nations have far less inequality but also deploy the most advanced technologies, and are even more open to foreign competition. (See here.)Furthermore, the mainstream Democrats have convinced themselves, that despite the Sanders surge, most Americans do not support bold policies to reverse runaway inequality — too “socialistic.”Does a social democratic program appeal to most Americans?We decided to test the mainstream Democratic Party phobias by asking 200 randomly selected 18 to 40 year-olds to evaluate a strong platform aimed at reversing runaway inequality.(The response choices were “Strongly Agree”, “Neutral,” “Disagree,” “Strongly Disagree.” The results below combine the “Strongly Agree/Agree” categories, and the “Strongly Disagree/Disagree” categories. Given the sample size the margin of error is a 7 percent. The survey was conducted April 20-22 via SurveyMonkey.)The results clearly demonstrate that these younger people are more than willing to embrace bold proposals. (Please keep in mind that approximately 30 to 40 percent of these respondents were likely Trump voters.)Money and Politics: The right to fair and equal representation, free from voter suppression and the influence of big money. For our democracy to endure, we must overturn Citizens United, enact public campaign financing and enforce the Voting Rights Act. Agree: 65.8%, Disagree: 5.0%Medicare for All: The right to universal health care. Expand and improve Medicare (for All) to provide every American with access to quality, affordable healthcare. Agree: 75.6%, Disagree: 12.7%Environmental Protection: To prevent catastrophic damage to our planet’s life support systems, we must accelerate the transition to a clean energy economy; protect our water and air from pollution; and prevent companies from moving to countries with weaker health, safety and environmental standards. Agree: 84.5%, Disagree: 4.0%Job at a living wage: Everyone who is willing and able to work is entitled to a decent paying job in a safe and healthy workplace. If the private sector can’t provide such jobs, then the public sector should. Agree: 65.0%, Disagree: 20.5%Free Public Education: The right to free public education from pre-K through college or trade school. Pre-K for 2- to 5-year olds should be available free of charge for all families. And everyone who qualifies for entrance to higher education should be able to attend tuition free. Agree: 72.0%, Disagree: 13.0%Impartial criminal justice: Biased law enforcement in poor urban and rural communities must be ended, and we must stop using mass incarceration as a substitute for decent employment and educational opportunities. Agree: 75.1%, Disagree: 16.9%Pathway to citizenship: Every resident of the US should have a comprehensive pathway to citizenship, and be afforded the rights to due process and a fair hearing that the Constitution guarantees to all. Agree: 68.2%, Disagree: 10.4%Worker Rights: To protect and enhance worker rights and fairness on the job, the freedom to unionize, free from employer coercion, must be promoted. Agree: 58.6%, Disagree: 10.5%Public Banks: As an alternative to Wall Street’s predatory lending, every state should charter a public bank, modeled on the Bank of North Dakota, whose first and only goal is to serve its people. Also, like many other developed nations, the US should charter a national postal bank to provide fair and accessible financial services in all our communities. Agree: 59.0%, Disagree: 9.5%Taxing Wall Street: To move money to Main Street, a small sales tax should be imposed on stocks, bonds and derivatives. This also would discourage high frequency computer trades which make up the majority of all stock market activity. Agree: 49.0, Disagree: 10.7%End Stock Manipulation: CEOs and their Wall Street partners should not be permitted to enrich themselves by using corporate funds to buy back their own shares in order to artificially raise share prices. This was illegal before 1982 and should be again. Agree: 71.5%, Disagree: 6.5%Wealth Tax of 1% on those whose net worth is over $10 million: Those who have grown super-rich in our financialized economy must pay their fair share of taxes. A wealth tax, currently used by Spain, France, Switzerland and Norway, is an excellent way to recoup those losses. Agree: 72.1%, Disagree: 10.1%What will it take to wake up the Corporate Democrats?The Democratic Party is trying to move “economic issues” into their core message. That’s not good enough. As we see from our survey, younger Americans in particular are hungry for more than platitudes about economic opportunity, public-private partnerships, reduced tuition loans and other half measures.What the Democrats are offering can be co-opted by Trump’s faux populism. But a strong agenda to reverse runaway inequality cannot.Rather than embrace these proposals mainstream Democrats are likely to reject our survey because it doesn’t jive with the milquetoast questions posed by their high-priced pollsters, and because it challenges their cozy relationships with Wall Street and corporate elites.But we can’t afford to sit around and moan this sorry state of affairs. Millions are in motion and eager to get more involved. We need to break through the false narratives and continue to prove that Americans want a much fairer society.For starters, we could turn this agenda into a circulating petition, get 20 million or so to sign it, and then shove it in the face of every politician. Then maybe, just maybe, we’ll see growing support for real policies to reverse runaway inequality.If you’re interested in helping out, check out runawayinequality.org We need you. We need each other.(In honor of Trump’s first 100 days, we’re having a week-long e-book sale for Runaway Inequality: An Activist Guide to Economic Justice. ― $4.99 on Amazon, Barnes and Noble and Apple. All proceeds go to support these educational efforts.)This article originally appeared on Alternet.orgLes Leopold, the director of the Labor Institute, is currently working with unions and community organizations to build the educational infrastructure of a new “reversing runaway inequality” movement. For more information, contact runawayinequality.org.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obamacare-repeal-government-shutdown-congress_us_58fcc053e4b06b9cb91795c2?section=us_politics
The White House Thinks Congress Can Repeal Obamacare AND Prevent A Shutdown... All This Week!WASHINGTON ― White House officials are ratcheting up pressure on House Republicans to vote this week to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, even though there is no bill, there is no agreement on what that bill should look like, and Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) has signaled no interest in rushing to vote on legislation that will fail.“I would like to have a vote this week and I think the leadership knows that we’d like to have a vote this week,” White House chief of staff Reince Priebus said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet The Press.”Mick Mulvaney, budget director for President Donald Trump, said on “Fox News Sunday” that he knows GOP leaders are focused on preventing a government shutdown this week ― the government runs out of money on Saturday ― but he sees no reason why Republicans can’t repeal Obamacare and fund the government at the same time.“We don’t think there’s any structural reason that the House and the Senate cannot do both things in a week,” Mulvaney said. “We’ve also heard rumors that the House and Senate might stay until Saturday. It would be great to allow things to get done this week.”Kevin Lamarque / ReutersThe question is, what can't we do in a week?The idea that Congress can simply pass both bills this week is not just unrealistic ― let’s just say it will be a success if Republicans avoid a government shutdown ― but it underscores what is driving the White House’s agenda right now: Trump hits his 100-day mark on Saturday, and he just wants to chalk up wins before then.  On anything .The most pressing issue is keeping the government open. Congress has been passing a series of short-term funding bills since October to keep operations running, and they’ve got to pass something before Saturday that either extends the current level of funding or goes bigger and adds in other GOP spending priorities.That’s where it gets sticky. Trump is pressing Republicans to include money in the bill to build his infamous border wall, and Democrats (and some Republicans) have said they’ll vote against any such proposal. That means, if Republicans moved forward with money for Trump’s wall, it would likely tank the bill and potentially shut down the government.Ryan and other House GOP leaders  insisted in a Saturday call  that they will keep the government open, though their strategy for doing so is still murky.Passing a bill that kills the Affordable Care Act and replaces it with something better, of course, is even more complicated. Ryan’s first stab at passing a replacement bill went down in flames last month, when he had to yank the bill off the floor because it lacked the votes. GOP conservatives and moderates don’t agree on the specifics of what a health care overhaul should look like, and Democrats are unified in opposing any of their efforts.Given these complexities, Trump may need to lower the bar for what constitutes a major success to something like, say, avoiding a government shutdown during your first 100 days in office.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/border-wall-mexico_us_58fcb22ce4b018a9ce5bfd6b?section=us_politics
Trump’s Administration Wants Democrats To Fund Wall Mexico Is Supposed To Pay ForSenior White House officials on Sunday urged Democrats not to shut the government down over partial funding for President Donald Trump’s proposal to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. Lost in their appeals, however, was the president’s oft-repeated promise that Mexico would pay for it.“I can’t imagine the Democrats would shut down the government over an objection to building a down payment on a wall that can end the lawlessness,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on ABC’s “This Week.”“We’re going to get it paid for one way or the other,” he added, hinting the U.S. could secure the funds later through trade negotiations. “I don’t expect the Mexican government to appropriate money for it. But there are ways that we can deal with our trade situation to create the revenue for it.”Trump vowed that Mexico would pay for a “big, beautiful wall” throughout the campaign trail. His supporters loved the line so much that they screamed “Mexico” whenever he spoke about the project, which is estimated to cost at least $21.6 billion.Appearing on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) said he believed lawmakers would come to an agreement and avert a shutdown before funding to the government runs out next week. But he noted the matter was complicated somewhat by Trump’s insistence that Mexico ― not U.S. taxpayers ― would foot the tab for the wall.“I think there’s still question marks about, wait a minute, this is a guy that said Mexicans are going to pay for it, and now it’s going on a spending bill borne by the U.S. taxpayer,” he said on CNN. “So I think there’s going to be debate on it. But I think ultimately it’s still a Republican priority and I don’t think [the government] is going to get shut down over it.”Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) also recalled the president’s campaign rhetoric in a separate interview on the same program.“This was a promise made by the president during his campaign. And don’t you remember, he said the Mexicans were going to pay for it? Now we know it’s going to cost $20 billion to $70 billion for this wall,” he said.Trump addressed the budget brinksmanship in a Sunday morning tweet, promising Mexico would pay for the wall “eventually” and “in some form.” He also threatened to cut off key Obamacare subsidies unless Democrats agree to fund the wall he said Mexico would pay for.ObamaCare is in serious trouble. The Dems need big money to keep it going - otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone would have thought.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/jeff-sessions-hawaii-no-apology_us_58fcb373e4b00fa7de1502c3?section=us_politics
Jeff Sessions Won’t Apologize For Offending The Entire State Of HawaiiAfter facing widespread backlash for seemingly dismissing the state of Hawaii as “an island in the Pacific” while criticizing a federal judge there, Attorney General Jeff Sessions stood by his comments on Sunday, claiming they were just a joke.“Nobody has a sense of humor anymore,” Sessions told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos, who asked why the attorney general didn’t just say “the state of Hawaii.”Last week, Sessions attacked Derrick Watson, a U.S. district judge in Hawaii, for halting Trump’s revised ban on travel and immigration from six majority-Muslim countries.“I really am amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific can issue an order that stops the president of the United States from what appears to be clearly his statutory and constitutional power,” Sessions said on conservative radio host Mark Levin’s show.Hawaii’s two Democratic senators, Mazie Hirono and Brian Schatz, pilloried Sessions for discriminating against their state and for undermining the judicial branch. Trump and members of his administration have repeatedly attacked judges who have ruled against him.Hey Jeff Sessions, this #IslandinthePacific has been the 50th state for going on 58 years. And we won’t succumb to your dog whistle politics— Senator Mazie Hirono (@maziehirono) April 20, 2017“The suggestion that being from Hawaii somehow disqualifies Judge Watson from performing his Constitutional duty is dangerous, ignorant, and prejudiced,” Hirono said in a statement Thursday. “I am frankly dumbfounded that our nation’s top lawyer would attack our independent judiciary. But we shouldn’t be surprised. This is just the latest in the Trump Administration’s attacks against the very tenets of our Constitution and democracy.”Schatz noted that as a senator in 2013, Sessions voted to confirm Watson, who was nominated by former President Barack Obama, and asked Sessions to “have some respect.”Mr. Attorney General: You voted for that judge. And that island is called Oahu. It's my home. Have some respect. https://t.co/sW9z3vqBqG— Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) April 20, 2017In response, the Department of Justice tried to walk back Sessions’ remarks, saying in a statement that “Hawaii is, in fact, an island in the Pacific ― a beautiful one where the Attorney General’s granddaughter was born.”“The point, however, is that there is a problem when a flawed opinion by a single judge can block the President’s lawful exercise of authority to keep the entire country safe,” the statement continued.On Friday, Sessions said that he did not mean to criticize the state and was merely “raising the point of that issue of a single judge taking such a dramatic action and the impact that it could have,” he told CNN.But he said he did not regret the way in which he said it.“Well, I don’t know that I said anything that I would want to phrase differently. Uh, no,” he said. “We’re going to defend the president’s order.”Schatz on Sunday slammed Sessions’ latest attempt to defend himself.You weren't kidding. And it wasn't funny. This is about respecting the rule of law, and respecting every American. https://t.co/0bcqaDsORE
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/john-kelly-homegrown-terrorism_us_58fcb30ce4b06b9cb9178da7?section=us_politics
Homeland Security Secretary: ‘I Don’t Know How To Stop’ Homegrown Terrorist AttacksJohn Kelly, the man in charge of protecting the nation’s homeland security, admitted Sunday that he has absolutely no idea how to prevent homegrown terrorist attacks.“There are so many aspects to this terrorist thing,” Kelly, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”“Obviously, you got the homegrown terrorists. I don’t know how to stop that. I don’t know how to detect that. You got other terrorist threats that come across the border.”Kelly’s admission to CBS host John Dickerson was surprising, in part because of its candor. For all of President Donald Trump’s focus on the border and banning people from Muslim-majority countries from the United States, the administration apparently doesn’t know how to deal with what Kelly said are the most common types of attacks.DICKERSON: I just want to follow up, Mr. Secretary. You said on the homegrown threat, a lot of people think that is the biggest threat. It was part of the San Bernardino shooting, a part of the Boston bombing. But you said you don’t know how to stop that. If that’s the biggest threat and you don’t know how to stop it, that seems like a big problem.KELLY: It is a big problem. It is ― you know, depending on where you sit is where you stand on this, it is a big threat. Is it the number one threat? I think it’s the most common threat. ...I think the appeal I would make on the homegrown threat is if you see something, say something.  Whether you’re a parent, a sibling, an imam. And this extends frankly, John, to white supremacists and that kind of terrorism as well. If you see a young man or a young woman going down that path where they’re always on these kind of websites or saying things at church or in a mosque that are clearly disturbing, then tell someone about it so that we can help that kid, young man or woman, before they break the law.In February, the Chicago Project on Security and Threats released a report looking at “the American face of ISIS” ― 104 individuals the Department of Justice indicted for ISIS-related crimes between March 2014 and August 2016, and eight individuals who died on behalf of ISIS either in a domestic attack or fighting in Syria.The researchers found that these individuals were mostly born in the United States.CPOSTAs Kelly noted, cooperation with the communities these individuals belong to is key to fighting the terrorist threat. Trump, however, has alienated many potential allies by campaigning on a promise to implement a “Muslim ban.” A December 2015 press release from his campaign stated, “Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.”In January, Trump implemented the first version of his ban, taking aim at travelers and refugees from certain Muslim-majority nations. However, his order also had the effect of blocking and delaying green card holders who were trying to re-enter the United States.After a judge halted that order, the Trump issued a revised version, which is also currently on hold in the courts.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-condemns-anti-semitism-on-israels-holocaust-remembrance-day_us_58fdf48de4b00fa7de15ce21?section=us_politics
Trump Pledges ‘Never Again’ On Israel’s Holocaust Remembrance DayU.S. President Donald Trump said anti-Semitism should be defeated and called the Holocaust the “darkest chapter of human history” in a video address on Sunday, following two missteps by his administration regarding statements about genocide during World War Two.“The mind cannot fathom the pain, the horror and the loss. Six million Jews, two-thirds of the Jews in Europe, murdered by the Nazi genocide. They were murdered by an evil that words cannot describe, and that the human heart cannot bear,” Trump said in a speech to the World Jewish Congress Plenary Assembly in New York on Yom HaShoah, Israel’s Holocaust Remembrance Day.“On Yom HaShoah, we look back at the darkest chapter of human history,” Trump added. “We mourn, we remember, we pray, and we pledge: ‘Never again.’”Brendan McDermid / ReutersGuests watch a video of U.S. President Donald Trump as he addresses the 15th Plenary Assembly of the World Jewish Congress in New York City, U.S., April 23, 2017.In January, on international Holocaust Remembrance Day, a Trump administration statement failed to mention Jews, the overwhelming majority of those who were killed in concentration camps under Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler.Earlier this month, White House spokesman Sean Spicer triggered an uproar when he said Hitler did not sink to the level of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad by using chemical weapons.Spicer later apologized after his comments aroused criticism on social media and elsewhere for overlooking the fact that millions of Jews were killed in Nazi gas chambers.Trump’s four-minute message included somber references to Jewish suffering in the Holocaust, a commitment to support Israel and a rebuke of prejudice and anti-Semitism.“We must stamp out prejudice and anti-Semitism everywhere it is found. We must defeat terrorism, and we must not ignore the threats of a regime that talks openly of Israel’s destruction,” Trump said in an apparent reference to Iran.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/bernie-sanders-email-list_us_58fcd4cfe4b00fa7de151cf9?section=us_politics
Bernie Sanders Won’t Say Whether He Will Share His Email List With DemocratsSen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) on Sunday declined to say whether he will share extremely valuable information about his huge network of supporters ― including their email addresses and other personal information ― with the Democratic Party, as Hillary Clinton did earlier this month.“Well, right now, John,” the progressive champion told CBS News’ John Dickerson, “our focus is building up a strong progressive movement in this country. And I think the people who donated want us to focus on electing the most progressive people that we possibly can and bringing our people together to oppose this disastrous Trump agenda, which calls for tax breaks to billionaires while at the same time he wants to throw 24 million Americans off of health insurance, defund Planned Parenthood, and raise premiums for older seniors.”“So our job right now is to build the progressive movement,” he added. “And we are making some pretty good success. All over the country, we’re seeing progressives running for office and beginning to win.”“Some Democrats are going to hear that and think, ‘Well, he’s not totally committed to the whole Democratic Party idea here,’” Dickerson responded.“Well, there’s very few people who have been running around the country quite as much as I have been, trying to bring people into the party,” Sanders countered, arguing Democrats needed to compete in red states in order to grow the party.Sanders’ team has been reluctant to give the list to the Democratic National Committee out of fear that it will be misused in their hands, HuffPost’s Daniel Marans reported in February. They also argue that the individuals on the list did not sign up as Democrats but as supporters of Sanders. The Vermont senator says he identifies as a Democratic Socialist.The fate of Sanders’ list is yet another bone of contention between Democrats and the party’s grassroots base. A “Unity Tour” embarked upon last week by Sanders and DNC Chair Tom Perez across the country did little to mend divisions between progressives and moderates. In fact, it exposed them further.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/hillary-clinton-science-march_us_58fc91d1e4b00fa7de14ff85?section=us_politics
Hillary Clinton Applauds March For ScienceFormer Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton praised the thousands of demonstrators who protested against President Donald Trump’s anti-science agenda on Saturday and urged people to “protect the Earth and all its beauty.”“It is Earth Day, and we are marching on behalf of science,” Clinton said to applause during a surprise appearance at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York on Saturday evening. “Part of science is understanding the intricate relationships we share with those on this planet.”Saturday’s nationwide March for Science, coinciding with Earth Day, came just three months after the massive Women’s March on Jan. 21, the day after Trump’s inauguration.Earlier on Saturday, Clinton affirmed her support for the marches, tweeting “March on!”Happy #EarthDay, and thanks to math and science for all you've given us!March on! 🎉🔬🔭https://t.co/tYquyVKZUn— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) April 22, 2017Clinton attended the festival as an unannounced panelist at the premiere of “The Protectors: Walk in the Rangers’ Shoes,” a virtual reality documentary about elephant poaching that was co-created by Oscar-winning director Kathryn Bigelow.#marchforscience shoutout from @HillaryClinton! What an amazing #earthday surprise at #Tribeca2017 pic.twitter.com/vJPvp5OEGZ— Tribeca (@Tribeca) April 23, 2017The film, which National Geographic will release online next month, documents park rangers in the Congo combating the environmental crisis caused by elephant poaching, an issue Clinton worked on as secretary of state.“It became clear to everyone that this was not just a terrible crisis when it came to the elephant population; it was a trade, a trafficking that was funding a lot of bad folks, a lot of bad actors,” Clinton said. “It was being used to take ivory and sell it in order to buy more weapons, and support the kind of terroristic activity that these and other groups were engaged in.”A thrill to join team of Kathryn Bigelow's The Protectors at #Tribeca2017. Let's protect the earth & all its beauty.https://t.co/X1gpNulhqI— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) April 23, 2017Clinton has kept a relatively low profile since November’s election, but has attended plays and other cultural events in New York and spoken at events related to issues she champions, such as LGBTQ rights and women’s rights.The former secretary of state’s appearance at the festival was kept tightly under wraps. Bigelow, who moderated the panel, said even she didn’t know that Clinton would be there.“I had nothing to do with her being here,” Bigelow told The Wrap. “This was all the festival’s doing. But I know she’s been doing great work in this field for years, and she’s a woman of extraordinary power.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/what-democrats-dont-get-about-trumps-working-class_us_586dc952e4b07888d4813e40?section=us_politics
What Democrats Don’t Get About Trump’s Working Class BaseHeld in the middle of one of the most tumultuous eras of American politics, the 1965 New York Mayoral Election marked an important turning point in our history. The handsome John Lindsay, a progressive Republican at a time when the party had their fair share of liberals, managed to etch out a victory against future mayor Abraham Beam, a typical Tammy Hall Democrat. Lindsay would go on to serve two terms as mayor before watching his political career falter, but he may not have become mayor at all were it not for one man: William F. Buckley. While the late conservative intellectual is now better known for his philosophical contributions to the American right, he had a brief — but significant — career as a politician.Buckley knew that he wouldn’t win the election. That wasn’t why he was running. In reality, the only real motive for Buckley was that he didn’t want to see a liberal Republican like Lindsay do well, lest John Lindsay become a central figure in the GOP and set back the young but burgeoning conservative movement. But, while Buckley may have hoped to stop Lindsay by chipping off Republican-leaning millionaires, his strongest support actually came from ethnic whites, or what we’d now call the “white working class.” In contrast, Lindsay, an Upper-East Sider and a quintessential member of the “liberal elite,” won by driving up the score with marginalized populations that saw a champion in him. Throughout his mayoralty, Lindsay would fight for the rights of African-Americans, Latinos, and even the LGBTQ community, earning their support–as well as the disdain of the white working class. Fifty-two years later, the politics of 1965 New York remain astoundingly relevant.While the white working class may not have had the political capital to even come close to electing Buckley, it was (barely) able to elect Donald Trump. But Trump was merely the capstone of white working class support for the GOP: For the first time in decades–and probably in all of American history–the white ethnic working class is the cornerstone, the central bloc, of the Republican Party’s voting base. This has understandably stunned liberals, partially because such voters formed a critical bloc of the Democratic Party as recently as thirty years ago. But it’s also because, from a liberal perspective, the Democratic Party should be the natural home of the white working class. After all, the Democratic Party is the one that stands up to big business. The Democratic Party is the one that stands up for Medicare and other entitlement programs. The Democratic Party is the one that rejects generous tax breaks for the 1%. The Democratic Party is the one that stands up for the workingman. And yet the Democratic Party seems unable to earn the support of the very people it claims to champion.Why? Opinions vary; the “Establishment” wing of the party (e.g. Nancy Pelosi, Seth Moulton, the Crooked Team) believes that the Democratic Party needn’t make any policy changes. They say that the party already has policies to support these voters in place and that the real problem comes from a failure to communicate them. The “Progressive” wing (e.g. Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Keith Ellison) says that the problem is systematic, that the party is not with working people and must move further to the left to earn their support. And then, of course, there are your Thomas Franks, who more or less say that the real problem is that working class citizens have been brainwashed into supporting Republicans by way of the culture wars. Each diagnoses is compelling and persuasive, but also fundamentally wrong headed. The problem is that every pundit who holds these views has forgotten a fundamental rule of anthropological research (and the entire American working class is so foreign to Jon Lovett that we should call it anthropological): relativism. Each and every one of them asks, “How could these people who would so clearly benefit from Democratic policies vote Republican? What could possibly lead them to do such a thing?” As a result, they more or less try to figure out what might lead them to support Republicans if they were in the white working class’s shoes, seemingly without considering the possibility that the white working class views the world and its problems in a completely different way.But the problem is that they do see the world a different way. They see most problems and solutions differently, which ultimately renders a lot of proposed solutions politically worthless.Take Trump’s budget proposal as an example.Looking at it from a policy perspective, the plan is abysmal and would do nothing to make America great. The military budget in the U.S. is already sky high; the EPA–the program that helps keep the Mississippi River clean–is already cut to the bones; the National Endowment for the Arts is already underfunded, and it supports our museums, not starving artists bumming off of government assistance; the state department saves American lives by using diplomatic methods to solve conflicts, and it keeps relations with our allies intact; and if there’s a hammock sustaining the lives of welfare queens, it’s a poorly built hammock made of rusted nails and under-funded programs, the same programs used to help the elderly and disabled. But, even though the budget probably won’t make it through Congress as is, I’m guessing that it’s the kind of budget that Trump’s base were hoping he’d introduce.Trump supporters tend to be skeptical of human-caused climate change and any regulatory solutions to the issue; this is probably because many voters believe these “solutions” do little more than eliminate good jobs for blue-collar workers. So, a cutback on the EPA not only reduces frivolous spending, it creates jobs! The N.E.A.? Another example of wasteful government spending that takes tax-dollars from the hardworking and gives it to something worthless. The state department? You can’t defeat ISIS with words. And those welfare programs? All they do is subsidize undeserving idlers at the expense of the workingman, yet another example of how the government is corrupt and has to be drained. And those Goldman Sachs bankers riddled among his cabinet? It seems that supporters don’t really blame the wealthy for our problems, even if his campaign rhetoric would seem to suggest otherwise. In their minds, businesses are private, create jobs, and are therefore responsible to no one but themselves and their stockholders; why else would they have trusted a businessman enough to elect him? Instead, many of them feel that the primary fault for the Great Recession lay with the government, who takes their money and then squanders it. It’s important to note that this doesn’t mean their views are necessarily in line with the mainstream Republican Party; they just think that the way the government currently spends is wasteful, not all government spending per se (see Medicare.)They do feel that the wealthy should pay more taxes, but not as strongly as they feel they themselves should pay fewer. They also tend to believe that higher spending on schools is okay, so long as none of that extra pay goes to teachers. I could go on and on, but my point is this: Trump supporters see the world very differently. They do practice identity politics, and they think that someone is eating their share of the pie. They do support big government programs, but only to the extent that these programs help themselves, not everyone else. In their minds, they “earned” their right to Medicare and Social Security, but no one earns the right to healthcare simply by being alive. They think the problems of the working poor simply come from the fact that they aren’t willing to work, and they’d be fine if they got jobs.Additionally, there’s a real resentment from working class Americans towards wealthier Americans. When I say wealthy, I’m not referring to Lloyd Blankfein or the Koch brothers; I’m talking about people who come from affluent communities like San Jose or Schaumburg. While most of these Americans think of themselves as middle-class, most of their fellow citizens would probably disagree. The residents in these areas dominate the political conversation, meaning that before Trump, a disproportionate amount of the political conversation was focused on the concerns of the wealthiest 25 percent of Americans. Meanwhile, many white working class members felt that their opinions and concerns were not only ignored, but were consciously disregarded and mocked by the “elite.” And if we’re being honest, it’s true. Whenever the elites do come up with solutions they say are supposed to benefit the working class, they’re thought up without any input from the very people they’re supposed to help. Some of the worst places to be poor or middle class in this country are also the most liberal. Only some of this is due to policy (though it’s usually when Democrats refuse to close down public schools in wealthy neighborhoods instead of poor,) but it gives the Republican Party some outstanding selling points about how the Democrats can’t run a government.Many liberals like to view themselves as champions for the working class, but many working class citizens from all backgrounds seem to disagree. And as someone who works in a warehouse that employs a lot of minorities, I can confirm that these views are not exclusive to the white working class. While white working class and minorities may not agree on issues like trade or police reform, they aren’t far apart on issues like trans-gender rights, abortion, military intervention, or “welfare queens” (I’ve personally heard minority members of the working class complain about how people on welfare have better lives than they do.) I’ve often wondered how large a coalition a Trump-like candidate without his racial dog whistles and conspiracy theories could form.It may sound weird that these are the sentiments held by the white working class, but, in the context of history, it really isn’t all that strange. While many like to think of the 1930s-40s as the triumph of progressivism in the U.S. (and, in a sense, it was,) a lot of white working class voters never completely bought into it. Throughout the Depression, the War, and beyond, Southern voters kept sending conservative, Blue Dog Democrats like Joe Robinson and John Garner to Washington, and these men always found their way into important leadership positions once there. They were fairly progressive on women’s rights, but that’s about it. These men (and they were all men) are why we didn’t establish a national health care service in the 1940s and why it took until the 1960s to desegregate. They fought the creation of a universal welfare state, and they opposed the 1964 Immigration and Nationality Act. They resisted most aspects of the New Deal, and formed an integral part of the informal conservative coalition. Working class voters turning to a candidate like Trump is not an aberration, it’s a return to normal.I’m not writing any of this to criticize or praise the working class, and I’m certainly not proposing that the Democratic Party create a platform that caters completely to the working class’s sentiments. While I sympathize with some working class resentments, my own views are generally somewhere to the left of Barack Obama and right of Bernie Sanders. But, I am arguing that a lot of Democrats are talking about the working class without talking to them, meaning that they don’t get what they want or value. If the folks on Pod Save America want to talk about the working class and what they want, maybe they should stop making assumptions and do some homework.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-earth-day_us_58fb9b9ee4b06b9cb91759d6?section=us_politics
Donald Trump's Earth Day Statement Is ShamefulPresident Donald Trump released an Earth Day statement touting his commitment to protecting the environment, despite doing the exact opposite in the first few months of his administration.“ Our Nation is blessed with abundant natural resources and awe-inspiring beauty. Americans are rightly grateful for these God-given gifts and have an obligation to safeguard them for future generations,” Trump said in the statement Saturday. “My Administration is committed to keeping our air and water clean, to preserving our forests, lakes, and open spaces, and to protecting endangered species,”Trump, who has claimed that climate change is a hoax that the Chinese invented, has appointed multiple climate change skeptics to fill his cabinet. Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, one such skeptic, sued the agency more than a dozen times when the was attorney general of Oklahoma. Rick Perry, now the secretary of energy, said in 2012 he wanted to abolish the department Trump tapped him to run (he now says he regrets the comment).In his first 100 days as president, Trump has moved to eliminate several protections for the environment. He signed legislation repealing the Stream Protection Rule, which protected streams from mining operations. The president has also moved to eliminate the Clean Water Rule, which protects 2 million miles of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands. Getting rid of the rule could jeopardize drinking water for nearly 120 million Americans and numerous endangered species. He has also moved to get rid of car emission and pollution standards.The statement also noted that Trump is committed to “rigorous science” and “honest inquiry.”“Rigorous science is critical to my Administration’s efforts to achieve the twin goals of economic growth and environmental protection,” Trump said.  “My Administration is committed to advancing scientific research that leads to a better understanding of our environment and of environmental risks.  As we do so, we should remember that rigorous science depends not on ideology, but on a spirit of honest inquiry and robust debate.”But under Trump, the EPA’s Office of Science and Technology has removed “science” from its mission statement. Trump and Pruitt have questioned well established science that shows global warming is real. His administration has proposed gigantic cuts to biomedical and scientific research and, the EPA and environmental programs.Trump and the White House have also undermined science by distorting the truth and questioning facts. The entire field of science is built around objective observation and facts in the pursuit of truth. Thousands joined protests around the world on Saturday to highlight how Trump’s disregard for facts undermined science.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/mona-hanna-attisha-science-march-washington-us_us_58fb9d50e4b00fa7de14cf0c?section=us_politics
At Science March, Flint Whistleblower Warns More Crises To Come If Trump Gets His WayWASHINGTON — Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha, the pediatrician who blew the whistle on the lead crisis in Flint, Michigan, was among the thousands who converged on Washington, D.C. on Saturday to rally in support of science and against what many see as an attack on the scientific community by the Trump administration.In an interview with The Huffington Post at the March For Science, Hanna-Attisha warned that the direction the Trump administration is taking the country will likely come with serious consequences.“We right now have the perfect milieu for more Flints to come, in regard to the denial of science,” she said. “The regulations that were on the books to make Flint not happen — the lead and copper rule, public health regulations, water regulations, air regulations — those are all being threatened right now.”For almost two years, the residents of Flint were exposed to dangerously high levels of lead via the city’s tap water. And had it not been for Hanna-Attisha’s heroic action to side-step bureaucracy, the poisoning would have almost certainly persisted.The crisis in Flint, which is expected to have devastating long-term effects, has destroyed Hanna-Attisha’s trust in government.“You assume that when you turn on your tap that your water is OK,” she told HuffPost. “To realize that the people in government who are supposed to do their job to ensure that your water is OK weren’t doing their job, that not only shattered my trust, that shattered the trust of the entire population.”And with Trump now in office, the situation is “even more anxious,” she said.“If we couldn’t trust what we had before, how can we trust what we have now?” she said. “It is a scary time.”Trump, who’s called climate change “bullshit” and a “hoax” and perpetuated the debunked theory  that vaccines cause autism, has proposed a sweeping 31 percent cut in funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and the elimination of federal monies for the National Academy of Science. He’s also acted quickly to rollback a number of key Obama-era environmental protections, including the Clean Power Plan.Hanna-Attisha said the EPA’s resources were already stretched thin, and current policies have yet to catch up with science. The notion that lesser funding could somehow result in an equivalent or increased level of protection, she said, is “absolutely unreal.”For the English-born Iraqi-American, attending Saturday’s march was a no-brainer.“How could I not be here?” she said. “How couldn’t anybody who breathes clean air, drinks clean water, has ever taken a medication, has ever gone to the doctor — How could anybody not be here?”Hanna-Attisha called on young people to find something they love, take risks and do what they can to make the world a better place. And if they happen to be aspiring scientists, all the better.“The world needs more ethical, professional, activist-oriented scientists,” she said.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obamacare-trump_us_58fa7141e4b018a9ce5b621e?section=us_politics
Obamacare Was Slowly Getting Stronger. Then Trump Came Along.A new report offers fresh reason to think that the Affordable Care Act isn’t collapsing ― or, to be more precise, that the program wasn’t collapsing before Donald Trump took over as president.The report, from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, examines the financial performance of insurers selling coverage to individuals, whether directly to consumers or through one of the health care law’s new, state-based exchanges.The Kaiser analysis comes not long after  S&P Global Market Intelligence released a similar report that focused exclusively on  nonprofit Blue Cross insurance companies offering these “non-group” plans. S&P’s analysts reached essentially the same conclusion as Kaiser’s ― that, while some of these insurers were still suffering big losses by the end of 2016, on the whole carriers were seeing better financial returns after two rough years in the newly reformed health care system.The individual insurance market is showing signs of stabilizing. Still political uncertainty makes insurers hesitant https://t.co/21h4CmEkzH pic.twitter.com/RY11nsXykN— Cynthia Cox (@cynthiaccox) April 21, 2017The ability of private insurers to cover their costs and, eventually, to make at least a small profit is critical to the Affordable Care Act’s success. That is because the law depends on these companies ― operating under the law’s new rules ― to provide coverage to people who can’t get insurance through employers or through government programs like Medicaid.Going into 2016, the third full year of the law’s implementation, insurers realized that they had misjudged who would sign up for their plans. In particular, carriers expected a higher portion of relatively healthy people (with low medical bills) and a lower proportion of relatively unhealthy people (with high medical bills). As a result, the premiums they set were generally too low to cover costs ― and most ended up with big losses.Some carriers responded by jacking up premiums, others by withdrawing plans altogether. In both cases, they made news that played into the arguments of the law’s critics, including Trump, who insisted that Obamacare suffered from fatal design flaws.It’s an argument that Trump and his Republican allies in Congress have made repeatedly this year, as they have attempted to repeal the law and cited its supposedly imminent “collapse” or “implosion” as grounds for acting swiftly.Henry J Kaiser Family FoundationBut many experts have said that last year’s turbulence was likely more of a one-time adjustment ― insurers bringing their premiums into line with medical expenses, or recognizing that their business model simply wasn’t suited to the kind of customers who buy coverage on their own. The data in the Kaiser report backs up this argument.Overall, Kaiser found, the medical-loss ratio for these plans ― that is, the proportion of premiums that insurers paid out as claims ― fell from 103 percent in 2015 to  96 percent in 2016. That’s still too high for the plans to cover expenses, given overhead, but it represents a significant improvement, following two years of deterioration.Another measure of plan performance, the ratio of revenue to claims per person, had changed in the same way, the Kaiser study found ― with a year of improvement following two years of increasing trouble.Past performance does not guarantee future results, as the saying goes, and it’s impossible to know whether, absent other changes in the health care system, insurers were poised to see another year of improvements in 2017. But Cynthia Cox, one of the report’s co-authors, told HuffPost there’s good reason to think that insurance markets were, on the whole, stabilizing.“First, we know that insurers raised premiums substantially this year, and second, we know that enrollment has mostly held steady,” said Cox, associate director of Kaiser’s Program for the Study of Health Reform and Private Insurance.“We don’t usually think of rising premiums as good news, but in this case, since many insurers were losing money, some premium growth was necessary to stabilize the market,” Cox said. “Similarly with enrollment holding mostly steady, that’s a sign that there aren’t a lot of healthy people leaving the market.”The overall trends mask huge differences from state to state, county to county, and insurer to insurer. That’s always been the case with the Affordable Care Act, which is really 51 different programs ― one for each state plus the District of Columbia ― and with a lot of variation even within those jurisdictions.The reality is that consumers in Los Angeles or the suburbs of Detroit have more choices, and better prices, than those in Raleigh-Durham or rural Oklahoma. One major metropolitan area, the counties in and around Knoxville, Tennessee, currently has no insurers lined up for next year ― a reminder that, even with recent progress, the law still has significant problems that need fixing.But now, all of a sudden, the program is facing new difficulties ― thanks to a change in who’s managing it.The Obama administration worked hard to nurture the new insurance markets, whether by pushing to enroll people, or by working closely with insurers that were running into trouble. The Trump administration, by contrast, canceled planned advertising designed to encourage sign-ups, and signaled it will relax enforcement of the individual mandate.Most ominously, Trump and his advisers have suggested they might stop payment of some key subsidies for insurers ― or at least use that money as leverage for legislative deal-making. It wouldn’t be the first time Republicans at the state or federal level had taken action that looked an awful lot like sabotage.The uncertainty about the law’s future ― which includes, of course, the ongoing efforts to repeal it ― has spooked insurers. Officials and consultants have warned that, without some clarity about what the system will look like in the next year and beyond, carriers are more likely to jack up premiums (in order to protect against big losses) or simply to give up on the project altogether.Trump has frequently predicted such an outcome would help Republicans politically, to the point where it sounds like he might welcome disarray. “I’ve been saying for the last year and a half that the best thing we can do politically speaking is let Obamacare explode,” Trump said last month.Kaiser’s report, like S&P report before it, suggests that the Affordable Care Act can work under the right conditions. But it says nothing about the program’s ability to survive a president indifferent to its success ― let alone one who might be actively undermining it.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/bernie-sanders-democratic-unity-omaha-mayoral-candidate_us_58fa63d8e4b00fa7de143e32?section=us_politics
How Bernie Sanders Learned To Stop Worrying And Love The Democratic PartyOMAHA, Nebraska ― Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) called on an arena full of Omaha Democrats to get behind the city’s mayoral candidate Heath Mello on Thursday night, passionately appealing for unity hours after national reproductive rights advocates criticized the Democratic Party for backing an anti-choice lawmaker.“Maybe, just maybe, it’s time to change one-party rule in Nebraska. And we can start right here, by electing Heath Mello as the next mayor,” Sanders declared to loud cheers.Well before Sanders delivered his remarks, Mello had responded to the controversy by vowing that he would “never do anything to restrict access to reproductive health care” as mayor, notwithstanding his faith-rooted opposition to abortion ― and history of votes to limit abortion rights as a state lawmaker.But Sanders and Ellison’s decision to stump for Mello well before that clarification underscored a disagreement within progressive ranks about where to draw ideological boundaries, with Sanders arguing that compromising on contentious social issues is the price of building political power outside the liberal coasts.Ironically, enduring charges of progressive betrayal allowed Sanders to showcase his pragmatism and party loyalty on the fourth day of a cross-country “Come Together, Fight Back” tour with Democratic National Committee chair Tom Perez in which his own differences with the Democratic establishment have occasionally crept into the spotlight.“We can all be pure. I would love it if everybody in America held my political views,” Sanders said after Thursday’s rally, in a locker room in the Baxter Arena that had been turned into a green room for the evening. “That would be great if 320 million Americans all agreed with Bernie Sanders on every issue. Unfortunately, that’s not the case.”This is a progressive guy. We disagree on an issue.  Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), on Heath MelloSanders, who himself has faced accusations of excessive purism from Democratic critics, argued that supporting figures like Mello is an essential part of reviving the Democratic Party in GOP strongholds like Nebraska where Republicans control all congressional seats, the governorship, the legislature and the mayoralty of the largest city.He likened his disagreement with Mello on abortion rights to divergences with other Democrats who supported the Iraq War, major international trade deals and financial industry deregulation.“This is a progressive guy. We disagree on an issue,” Sanders said.The Vermont senator’s team-player tone was a marked contrast with some of the scenes of intra-party dissonance that arose on earlier legs of his national tour with the DNC.A handful of Sanders supporters booed at mentions of Perez’s name at rallies earlier this week in Portland, Maine, and Miami.Then there were the divergent messages of Sanders and Perez themselves. In an MSNBC appearance with Perez on Tuesday evening, Sanders pointedly denied that he was a Democrat, telling host Chris Hayes, “I am an independent.”Asked in the same interview whether he shared Sanders’ ire for the “ruling class of this country, the billionaire class,” Perez avoided the question, pivoting instead to talking points about Democrats winning when they “put hope on the ballot.”Fort Worth Star-Telegram/Getty ImagesSen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) speaks at a Democratic Party rally in Grand Prairie, Texas, on Thursday. In the evening he spoke to a larger crowd in Omaha, Nebraska.Earlier that day, Sanders declared that Georgia Democratic congressional candidate Jon Ossoff is “not a progressive,” according to a report in the Washington Post.But by Thursday night, with political writers wondering whether Democrats would ever resolve their “existential crisis,” Sanders was walking back his characterization of Ossoff.“I don’t know a whole lot about Jon. I certainly hope that he wins,” Sanders told HuffPost. “It would be an asset. It would be part of the process of reclaiming the House of Representatives for the Democrats.”Sanders also offered more details about his reasons for not formally identifying as a Democrat. For practical purposes, he has caucused with Democrats since taking office in the House in 1991, and is now a member of the leadership of the Senate Democratic Caucus, Sanders noted.What’s more, given the plurality of Americans who identify with neither of the two major parties, someone like him can help Democrats recruit independents, Sanders argued.“The Democratic Party is going to have to work very very hard to bring those independents into the party, to make the case that the Democratic Party can represent their needs. So having an active independent in the Democratic Senate leadership, I think, is very positive,” he concluded.A key to understanding the kumbaya atmosphere in Omaha is Sanders’ close relationship with Nebraska Democratic Party chairwoman Jane Kleeb.Kleeb backed Sanders in the March 2016 Nebraska caucus, which Sanders won, and a few months later was elected chair of the state Democratic Party on the strength of the Sanders wave. She now sits on the board of Our Revolution, the successor organization to Sanders’ presidential campaign.But Kleeb’s considerable accomplishments as a party chair and grassroots organizer in the state were clearly what impressed Sanders most. He implied that not traveling to Omaha to speak on behalf of Mello would have been an insult to her hard work and success in a state that Donald Trump won by 25 percentage points.“She is great. She is exactly the kind of energy that we need for the Democratic Party,” Sanders said.Daniel MaransThe crowd at a Democratic rally in Omaha, Nebraska, held signs with the outline of Bernie Sanders alongside that of Heath Mello.As founder of the multistate environmental advocacy group Bold Alliance, Kleeb earned progressive accolades for forging a new coalition of traditional green activists, native American tribes, farmers and ranchers to oppose construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. The various stakeholders believe the pipeline would threaten vital water sources on its way through Nebraska and neighboring rural states.The enthusiasm and diversity on display at Thursday’s three-hour rally suggests Kleeb has brought some of that creative organizing to her leadership of the state party. The boisterous crowd of 6,000 that arrived to hear Sanders and Mello was dotted with dozens of “Bernie-Mello” signs distributed by the state party. The placards featured the already famous outline of Sanders’ white hair and glasses alongside an outline of Mello’s black hair with black sunglasses.For his part, Mello, who has a sunny disposition, combined a local pitch filled with promises to improve pothole-ridden roads and pursue a “unifying aspirational vision” for the city’s development with an appeal to concerns about the policies of President Trump.“We need leadership that’s also willing to stand up against those in Washington, D.C., who want to trample on our values … values like inclusion and having a mayor who stands with immigrants, refugees” and the LGBTQ community, Mello said, prompting roars from the crowd.Although Sanders was clearly the evening’s biggest draw, many in the crowd also expressed excitement at Mello’s candidacy and the prospect of a Democratic glimmer in an otherwise deep-red state.Myra Jo Bates, 68, a retired marketing professor and volunteer for Mello’s campaign, said that while Mello’s opposition to abortion “bothers” her, “nobody’s perfect.”“I’m excited because he’s different and he’s going to be the mayor of all of Omaha, not just West Omaha, which is what we have now,” Bates said, referring to an affluent part of the city.The Democratic Party is a broad party. We are pro-life; we are pro-choice.  Jane Kleeb, chairwoman, Nebraska Democratic PartyIn fact, Mello’s position on abortion did not come up at all over the course of the rally. The closest any speaker came was a remark by Kleeb implying that the existence of opposing views on abortion is simply a facet of the Nebraska Democratic Party’s diversity.“The Democratic Party is a broad party. We are pro-life; we are pro-choice,” she said, before listing other factions like labor unions and “people that work in corporate America.”At a smaller rally in Grand Prairie, Texas, just outside Dallas, where Sanders spoke earlier in the day, some of the lingering internecine battles were slightly more visible.A group of Sanders supporters briefly broke into a chant of “Berniecrats, Berniecrats” during remarks by Dallas County Democratic Party chair Carol Donovan.Later someone interrupted a speech by Texas Democratic Party chair Gilberto Hinojosa to ask if he supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the now-defunct 12-nation trade agreement negotiated by former President Barack Obama that was deeply unpopular with the party’s progressive base.“No, I didn’t. In fact, the Texas Democratic Party, at my request, passed a resolution unanimously opposing the TPP,” Hinojosa responded, drawing cheers from the crowd. “Thank you for reminding me of that.”Sanders’ presence on the stump was also reassuring to some of the disaffected Democratic activists and independents who flocked to his candidacy.One of them was Joseph Landemeyer, a bearded 52-year-old who came with his brother from Gainesville, Texas, an hour away, to see Sanders in person.Landemeyer has never identified as a Democrat, but he voted for Obama twice and Sanders in the primary. When it came time for the general election last November, however, he opted for Green Party candidate Jill Stein. Hillary Clinton was “not of the people,” given her speeches to big banks and her other corporate ties, Landemeyer said.Enlisting Sanders as a prominent spokesman is “a good sign for the Democratic Party. They can’t be old-school values. They have to be new school,” Landemeyer said.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-100-days-environment-earth-day_us_58f87b68e4b0cb086d7e3175?section=us_politics
Happy Earth Day! Here Are All The Terrible Things Donald Trump Has Done So Far.President Donald Trump gave many signals on the campaign trail that his presidency would be a disaster for the environment. He called global warming a “hoax” and “bullshit,” vowed to dismantle the Environmental Protection Agency, and undo regulations to revive the fossil fuel industry.Almost 100 days into Trump’s tenure, the fears of environmentalists, scientists, public health advocates have been confirmed — and then some.Before he’d even been sworn in, Trump nominated several climate deniers chummy with the fossil fuel industry to his cabinet, including former Texas Gov. Rick Perry as the head of the Department of Energy and Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to head the Environmental Protection Agency ― a man who had sued the agency 14 times over industry regulations. Pruitt recently claimed, in contradiction to overwhelming scientific consensus, that human activity ― i.e. the burning of fossil fuels ― is not definitively the primary contributor to climate change.On the day Trump took office, a page devoted to climate change action on the White House website disappeared.  Four days later, Trump signed executive orders reviving the controversial Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines, a move that set the tone for a series of swift and sweeping changes to the nation’s climate and environmental policies that were soon to follow.Dismantling environmental protections is one area where Trump has made quick work.  “Donald Trump’s foreign policy and legislative agenda may be a confused mess,” wrote the Los Angeles Times’ David Horsey earlier this month.  “B ut his administration’s attack on the environment is operating with the focus and zeal of the Spanish Inquisition.”On Saturday, April 22 ― Earth Day ― thousands of scientists and  environmentalists will be marching on the National Mall to push back against what they say is Trump’s blatant disregard for science and his assault on the planet. Here’s an abbreviated timeline of some of the major environmental actions Trump has taken in his first 100 days.Getty ImagesTrump signed H.J. Res. 38, which repealed the Stream Protection Rule, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Feb. 16, 2017.Feb. 16, 2017: Stream Protection Rule nixedTrump signed legislation repealing the Stream Protection Rule, an Obama-era regulation that sought to protect U.S. waterways from coal mining operations. The rule  required coal mining companies to avoid practices “that permanently pollute streams, destroy drinking water sources, increase flood risk and threaten forests.” The regulation mandated the  testing and monitoring of waterways before, during and after mining operations, and required companies that had used controversial practices like mountaintop removal mining  to restore land to its “previous condition” once mining is complete.Environmentalists and public health advocates lambasted the rule’s repeal.  “Limiting the toxic waste coal companies can dump in our rivers and streams is not a burdensome government regulation; it is common sense and, quite frankly, the job of our federal government,” said Deborah Murray, a senior attorney with the Southern Environmental Law Center, in a statement.Feb. 28, 2017: Clean Water Rule threatenedThe president signed an executive order aimed at dismantling the Waters of the United States rule,  also known as WOTUS or the Clean Water Rule.  Trump instructed the EPA  and the Army Corps of Engineers to reconsider the environmental rule that designated which of the nation’s waterways should be protected under the federal Clean Water Act. The rule extended protection to 2 million miles of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands  that hadn’t been clearly covered under the original law.  A repeal of the rule could threaten the drinking water of 117 million Americans and the  health of many species, including endangered birds and marine life. Food safety and industries from farming to recreation could also be at stake if the rule is thrown out.March 2, 2017: Methane emissions info scrappedThe EPA threw out a regulation requiring oil and gas companies to provide more detailed information about their drilling facilities, including reporting on what equipment they use and how much methane, a potent greenhouse gas, is emitted.  “Today’s action will reduce burdens on businesses while we take a closer look at the need for additional information from this industry,” Pruitt, the EPA administrator, said. The methane rule was seen as a critical component of the U.S. plan to slash emissions as part of the Paris climate agreement.Pruitt has come under scrutiny for his close ties to the fossil fuel industry — connections that were clearly documented in a cache of  emails released days after Pruitt’s confirmation as head of the EPA.Justin Merriman/Getty ImagesEPA administrator holds up a miner's helmet that he was given after speaking with coal miners at the Harvey Mine on April 13, 2017 in Sycamore, Pennsylvania.March 7, 2017: “Science” vanishes from viewAs first reported by The New Republic, the EPA’s Office of Science and Technology removed the word “science” from its mission statement.March 15, 2017:  Car pollution standards rolled backAs automakers pushed the Trump administration to lift regulations on their industry, Pruitt announced that the EPA would reconsider Obama-era fuel-efficiency standards for some vehicles.Obama had introduced rules aimed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions from passenger vehicles, in a bid to reduce the carbon footprint of the U.S. transportation sector, which accounts for one-third of the country’s CO2 emissions. Based on those rules, carmakers would be required to have an  average fuel-economy rating of 54.5 miles per gallon across its entire fleet sold in the U.S. by 2025 (or about 36 miles per gallon in real-world driving). According to an EPA report released in the last days of Obama’s tenure, this new standard would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 6 billion metric tons over the lifetime of the new vehicles.Trump, however, has signaled that he wants to roll back these regulations as much as possible. As Vox explained, Obama’s fuel economy targets are more or less locked in through 2021, but the door remains open for changes between 2022 and 2025.Pruitt said his agency would be taking a “fresh look” at the 2022-2025 standards. These rules are “costly for automakers and the American people,” he said.March 16, 2017: Proposed budget would slash EPA fundsThe White House released its preliminary “skinny budget,” which proposed deep and sweeping cuts to several science and environmental agencies, including the EPA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The budget proposed a 30 percent  reduction in EPA funding — a cut that could see  hundreds of people involved in climate change change research losing their jobs and the elimination of more than 50 EPA programs.The budget would also slash Energy Star, the voluntary initiative that boosts energy efficiency in appliances, electronics and buildings. Grants for ozone pollution cleanup efforts and international climate programs like  the United Nations’ Green Climate Fund, would cease, as would some funding for the cleanup of several of America’s most important water bodies, including the Great Lakes,  the largest surface freshwater ecosystem in the Western Hemisphere,  and the Chesapeake Bay, the nation’s largest natural estuary.The budget also proposes halving the funding for enforcing the Clean Air Act, which aims at reducing air pollution, and removing funding completely for the Clean Power Plan (more on that below).Aaron Bernstein/ReutersDelegates from West Virginia hold signs supporting coal on the second day of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, Ohio, July 19, 2016.March 28, 2017: Trump takes aim at Obama’s climate planTrump signed the “Energy Independence Executive Order,” a directive that weakens many Obama-era climate and clean energy initiatives. First, the order called for a review of the Clean Power Plan, Obama’s signature program to fight global warming and one that was central to America’s plan to reach the goals laid out in the Paris climate agreement. The plan aimed to  reduce carbon emissions from existing power plants by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.The executive order also reversed Obama’s moratorium on new coal mining leases on federal lands, and instructed the Department of Interior (led by former Montana congressman and climate skeptic, Ryan Zinke) to begin reviewing several regulations for oil and gas extraction on federal lands, including national parks.The directive made clear that the Trump administration would be abandoning Obama’s climate roadmap. “We have a different view about how you should address climate policy in the U.S., and we’re going in a different direction,” a senior White House official told reporters the day before the executive order was signed.“I can’t get into ultimately what that means from an emissions standpoint,” the official added. “I have no idea.”JIM WATSON/Getty ImagesSurrounded by miners from Rosebud Mining, Trump signs the Energy Independence Executive Order at EPA Headquarters in Washington, DC, March 28, 2017.April 18, 2017: Pollution cleanup at power plants faces challengeThe EPA asked a federal appeals court to delay arguments over a rule that prevents coal-fired power plants from releasing toxic chemicals, including mercury, lead, arsenic and other pollutants, into the environment. In its court filing, the agency said it wants to first review the regulation as “p rior positions taken by the Agency … may not necessarily reflect its ultimate conclusions after that review is complete.”The filing came days after Pruitt announced his intention to postpone compliance deadlines for the  Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (MATS) rule, which was finalized in 2011 and is currently in effect. “ I have decided that it is appropriate and in the public interest to reconsider the rule,” Pruitt wrote in an April 12 letter.The MATS rule has been tied up in the court system for years. Shortly after the regulation was finalized, a coalition of industry groups and conservative states ― including  Oklahoma, which Pruitt then represented ― sued the EPA to stop it. In 2016, Pruitt sued a second time to block the regulation.The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals was expected to hear oral arguments on May 18 to determine whether the rule should be upheld, after a 5-4 Supreme Court decision led by Justice Antonin Scalia found the EPA had not adequately considered the regulation’s cost.This is an argument Pruitt has repeatedly touted, claiming that the MATS rule would put an undue financial burden on the energy industry. However, as the Associated Press notes, most power plants nationwide are already on track to comply with the new standards. According to the Environmental Defense Fund, companies have been able to accomplish this at  a fraction of the expected cost.The rule is expected to have a tremendous impact on public health. An earlier EPA analysis concluded that the regulation would prevent up to 11,000 premature deaths, 4,700 heart attacks, and 130,000 asthma attacks every year.Drew Angerer/Getty ImagesActivists rallied in support of the EPA outside of Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer's (D-NY) Midtown Manhattan office, April 4, 2017 in New York City.‘100 days of harm’April 29, 2017 — exactly 7 days after Earth Day — will be President Trump’s 100th day in office.Rhea Suh, the president of the National Resources Defense Council, called the past three months “100 Days of Harm.”“ Like any arbitrary benchmark, the 100-day point of a new president’s term normally tells us only so much about what’s to come. In the case of President Trump’s all-out assault on our environment and health, however, we’ve already seen more than enough,” wrote Suh in a recent column.  “Trump has acted again and again to undo half a century of bipartisan progress in protecting our rights to clean water, air, and lands. He’s moved to part ways with longstanding American values of conservation in the public interest. And he’s betrayed the covenant we’ve forged with our children to leave them a livable world .”More than 60 percent of Americans said they disapproved of how Trump is handling the environment in an April  Quinnipiac University poll.  Fifty-two percent of respondents said they “ are embarrassed to have Trump as president.”Activists have said it’s not too late to stop Trump’s anti-climate and anti-environment agenda. While his executive orders have garnered a lot of hype, a majority of them have not yet had a substantive impact on actual policy.Concerned citizens just have to be swift, and smart, in combating these threats.“We can’t afford to focus all of our energy on reacting to the parade of bad ideas and morally bankrupt policies that are pouring out of Washington,” wrote Sierra Club’s Executive Director Michael Brune in an op-ed last month. “We must also push back with better ideas and smarter policies for the world that we want to create.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-says-dreamers-shouldnt-worry-statistics-say-otherwise_us_58fa76a9e4b06b9cb916faaa?section=us_politics
Trump Says Dreamers Shouldn’t Worry. Statistics Say Otherwise.AUSTIN, Texas ― President Donald Trump offered words of reassurance to Dreamers on Friday,  telling the Associated Press  that he didn’t intend to deport the undocumented youths who qualify to remain in the country.Trump said his administration is “not after the Dreamers, we are after the criminals,” according to AP, adding that undocumented youths with permission to work legally should “rest easy.”But even as he pledged that Dreamers and law-abiding immigrants without papers should stop worrying, data released Friday by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse  undermined his claims .TRAC’s preliminary review of court records under Trump’s first two months in office showed that the number of people detained while their deportation cases proceed more than doubled, from 27 percent of the total to 61 percent.Nearly 26,000 people were served with Notices to Appear in immigration court ― the first step in deportation cases ― from Trump’s inauguration in late January through March. That figure amounts to roughly the same pace as in the final months of the Obama administration.But unauthorized border crossings have plummeted since Trump took office. That means a larger share of the people winding up in deportation proceedings were arrested from within the interior of the country and likely lived here for years ― a major shift that’s already ensnaring more people without serious criminal records into the removal system.“Interior enforcement has increased,” Muzaffar Chishti, who directs the New York office of the non-partisan Migration Policy Institute, told HuffPost. “That means now, more longer-term established residents are now going to be picked up than people who just crossed the border yesterday. That’s a significant change in the kinds of people you are removing.”In the last two years of the Obama administration, deportations dropped from record highs ― partly because unauthorized border crossings also dropped and partly because the administration often declined to deport undocumented immigrants already living in the U.S. without serious criminal records or previous deportations.An Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman called the TRAC study “misleading and vague,” in an emailed statement, but affirmed that the agency has widened its net under Trump. “ ICE focuses its enforcement resources on individuals who pose a threat to national security, public safety and border security,” the statement said. “However, as Secretary Kelly has made clear, ICE will no longer exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement.”The average daily population in immigrant detention as of April 8 was 40,467, according to ICE ― slightly lower than when Trump took office.Even before the TRAC data became available, The Washington Post reported this week that the number of people  without criminal records deported under Trump through March doubled to 5,441 .Such people were often allowed to check in with ICE and delay their deportations in former President Barack Obama’s final years. In the last months of Obama’s administration, more than half of those served with a Notice to Appear in immigration court never saw the inside of a detention center, according to TRAC.But within weeks of Trump taking office, ICE began detaining and removing people at their check-ins. Those arrests show immigration authorities under Trump are going after “low-hanging fruit,” according to former ICE Director John Sandweg. People checking in with ICE have normally exhausted all their appeals to stay in the country, so ICE can deport them more swiftly.I’m certainly not resting easy. Just this week, a DACA-mented person, Juan Manuel Montes, was deported from his family.  Karla Pérez, a DACA beneficiary and leader with United We Dream.And under Trump, ICE has already arrested several beneficiaries of the 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which allows undocumented immigrants who came to the country as youths to work and reside legally in the country for a renewable two-year period. On Feb. 17, Border Patrol summarily removed Juan Manuel Montes, a 23-year-old Mexican national shielded by DACA through 2018.None of these trends make Dreamers feel safe.“I’m certainly not resting easy,” Karla Pérez, a leader with the immigrant rights group United We Dream, who holds DACA, told The Huffington Post. “Just this week, a DACA-mented person, Juan Manuel Montes, was deported from his family.”Pérez pointed out that the Trump administration and many state and local governments are working together to expand the detention and deportation system.In Texas, where she lives, the state legislature is set to vote next week on Senate Bill 4, a law that would ban all jurisdictions from enacting “sanctuary” policies by declining to hold undocumented immigrants who qualify for release in local jails on behalf of immigration authorities. And more than a dozen local jurisdictions in Texas have applied for 287(g) agreements, which allow police to perform some immigration enforcement functions normally reserved for the federal government.“It’s important that people don’t lull themselves into thinking, ‘Oh I have DACA, I’m safe,’” Pérez said. “Proposals like Texas SB 4 will make all of us unsafe, including those of us that do have DACA. ”Juan Escalante, who works as a digital organizer for the advocacy group America’s Voice and who also holds DACA, said he isn’t taking Trump at his word.“Even with those promises that he won’t go after DACA-mented youth, that’s not the case,” Escalante said.Even if the Trump administration left DACA beneficiaries alone, Escalante said, many face bureaucratic obstacles, like coming up with $495 for their application renewal or getting it through the backlogged U.S. Immigration and Citizenship Services system in time to avoid a lapse in coverage that would leave them more vulnerable to deportation.“Everyone has to do what they’ve always been told to do ― know your rights, make a plan,” Escalante said. “This is only a couple months into the administration. Who knows what’s going to happen in a couple of years.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/earth-day-pete-mccloskey-trump_us_58fa3580e4b00fa7de13cdda?section=us_politics
Earth Day Pioneer Calls It A ‘Day Of Mourning’ This Year Thanks To TrumpSAN FRANCISCO — Saturday is Earth Day and things haven’t looked this bad for the environment in a long time, according to a former Republican congressman who helped launch the holiday.Pete McCloskey, who co-chaired the original Earth Day celebration in 1970, said there’s little to celebrate this year as President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress set out to slash budgets for environmental agencies and undermine laws that protect water, air and wildlife.“This will be a black day. This will be a day of mourning for what is about to happen to environmental regulations,” said McCloskey, who represented parts of the San Francisco Bay Area in Congress from 1967 to 1983. “In 1970, it was joyous as millions of people turned out against air pollution, water pollution.”The first Earth Day is credited with galvanizing public support behind sweeping changes to how the government managed natural resources. Months later, Congress created the Environmental Protection Agency. The Clean Air Act was also passed in 1970, while the Clean Water Act was passed in 1972. McCloskey co-authored the Endangered Species Act in 1973.These hard-fought gains are in jeopardy, McCloskey told HuffPost. The White House’s budget proposal aims to reduce the EPA’s spending by 25 percent, while the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s budget would shrivel by 17 percent.McCloskey pointed to a recent legal change allowing hunters to shoot hibernating bears in Alaska and worried that the Endangered Species Act would be dismantled.While many federal agencies would get trimmed under Trump’s budget proposal, there would be spending increases for defense, homeland security, transportation and veterans affairs. Trump often describes his push to cut back environmental protections, such as fuel efficiency standards, as a way to clear obstacles for business and create opportunities for job growth.“It’s a disaster and it’s going to set aside what we’ve accomplished since the first Earth Day,” said McCloskey, who registered with the Democratic Party in 2007 after becoming disillusioned with President George W. Bush’s administration.During an Earth Day event organized by San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee (D) on Thursday, McCloskey made similar comments. In a statement, he urged voters to defeat California Republicans like Rep. Kevin McCarthy, the House majority leader, in next year’s elections and vote for candidates favoring conservation and climate change policies.Thousands of scientists are planning to march on the National Mall on Saturday to protest what they see as Trump’s disregard for science and government funding for research.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-business-foreign-profits_us_58fa5475e4b00fa7de141ffa?section=us_politics
Chaffetz, Cummings Seek Answers From Trump On His Business’ Profits From Foreign GovernmentsWASHINGTON ― The House Oversight & Government Reform Committee is seeking more information from President Donald Trump and his business about how he plans to donate profits from foreign governments to the U.S. treasury.Reps. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), the committee’s chairman, and Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), the ranking Democrat on the committee, sent a letter to the Trump Organization’s lawyer Sheri Dillon on Friday requesting details on how Trump will sort and return these foreign profits to the treasury.Notably, the bipartisan letter comes days after Chaffetz announced plans not to seek re-election and to possibly resign his seat in the middle of his term. Chaffetz faced intense criticism for his early refusal to hold hearings on and request information from Trump about his business and conflicts of interest.The letter demands all information related to how the company plans to sort and return foreign government profits to the government, what Trump properties or entities are going to return said profits and whether the company plans to claim these donations to the treasury as tax deductions.On Jan. 17, Trump held a press conference to announce his plans to place his two adult sons, Donald Jr. and Eric Trump, in charge of his Trump Organization while maintaining his full ownership stake in all of his companies and properties. His decision to break with decades of presidential precedent and not divest or fully separate himself from his business opened him up to a vast array of conflicts of interest.Additionally, ethics experts and constitutional lawyers questioned whether he would run afoul of the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause. This clause forbids government officials, including the president, from receiving any gift, payment or title of nobility from a foreign state.Dillon, a tax lawyer at the firm Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, explained that while she and other lawyers had determined the Emoluments Clause did not apply to Trump, his Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., would divert profits from foreign governments to the U.S. treasury to avoid any appearance of impropriety.“The Constitution does not require President-elect Trump to do anything here,” she said in January. “But, just like with conflicts of interest, he wants to do more than what the Constitution requires. So, President-elect Trump has decided, and we are announcing today, that he is going to voluntarily donate all profits from foreign governments made to his hotel to the United States treasury.”Neither Dillon nor Trump’s business have explained which of Trump’s businesses will actually return foreign profits to the treasury. The only publicly known information is that the Trump Organization will return said profits from his D.C. hotel on an annual basis at the end of the year. Are other Trump hotels supposed to return their foreign profits, too?This became a hot topic after his new D.C. hotel saw a huge uptick in business after his election. Hotel management pitched foreign dignitaries on staying at the hotel to curry favor with the president. One diplomat told the Washington Post, “Why wouldn’t I stay at his hotel … so I can tell the new president, ‘I love your new hotel!’”The governments of Kuwait, Bahrain and Azerbaijan moved annual parties to the Trump hotel from other venues. Saudi Arabia paid for its U.S. lobbying firm to rent at least one room at Trump’s hotel after the inauguration. A Turkish business lobbying group close to the Turkish government is holding its annual conference with Turkish government officials present at the Trump hotel in May.Chaffetz and Cummings want to know how the Trump Organization is calculating the profits from these events and hotel room reservations. The average profit margin for a luxury hotel was between 6 to 15 percent in 2013. Where does the Trump D.C. hotel fall in that range?The hotel is not the only potential landing place for foreign government profits. According to USA Today, the Trump Organization has sold 58 real estate properties for about $90 million since the election. The majority of those sales have gone to limited liability companies that mask the identity of the owner.The largest such sale, first reported by Mother Jones, was a $15.9 million Manhattan condo sale to the Chinese-American businesswoman Xiao Yan Chen. Chen just happens to run a consulting business to help U.S. firms gain influence in China.While Dillon argues that the Emoluments Clause does not apply to the president, ethics experts and constitutional lawyers vehemently disagree. The Trump Organization is currently being sued by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a liberal ethics watchdog; Restaurant Opportunity Partners, a nonprofit industry association; and Jill Phaneuf, an event planner, for allegedly violating the clause.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/house-gop-obamacare_us_58f9f308e4b06b9cb915dada?section=us_politics
Why House Republicans Seem Fine Risking Humiliation Again In Pursuit Of An Obamacare RepealThe House Republicans’ zombie health care overhaul bill rose from the dead once more Wednesday night, with moderates and conservatives coming to a tentative agreement on draft language. Immediately, though, it became clear that the new bill faces even tougher odds than the one that was already laid low in the House and that caused no shortage of political damage to Republicans.All of which raises a vexing question: Why are they doing this to themselves again?After all, their first effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act went up in dramatic flames in an embarrassing fashion, raising questions about Speaker Paul Ryan’s ability to manage his caucus, President Donald Trump’s ability to inspire votes, and the viability of the rest of the GOP agenda. It left the Freedom Caucus wounded and at war with the president, while moderates had to suffer an outpouring of intense opposition back home.Since then, Obamacare has only grown more popular and the pathway to its demise more narrow in the Senate. One Republican lawmaker told The Huffington Post that the chances of ultimately succeeding with repeal and replace stood at 25 percent. And that, he acknowledged, was being generous.Congressional Republicans could conceivably look at these odds and decide that it’s in their self-interest to run away ― that the risk of incurring more humiliations, of reminding voters of their political fecklessness, is simply too great. And yet, since the first attempt fell apart, they’ve repeatedly returned to the subject.Joshua Roberts/ReutersSpeaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) speaks about health care reform with House Republicans during a press briefing on Capitol Hill on April 6.“I think in their campaign and since the election, they have shown they are not risk-averse,” John Brabender, a longtime Republican operative, said of GOP lawmakers.Those involved in actually crafting a health care bill say they recognize the politics are tricky, if not potentially self-damaging. And because of that they’ve sought to tamp down expectations that something will pass. A senior GOP aide told HuffPost on Wednesday that there was no current agreement to whip votes for the latest measure, let alone any indication the party would have the necessary 216 votes.But aides also insist they have to continue to look for a path forward, in large part because the primary political concern for GOP lawmakers right now originates within their own party and not outside it. Virtually all elected Republicans in Congress pledged to repeal and replace Obamacare during their campaigns ― more or less every day since it became law. To abandon it after one attempt at passage (and a meek three-week effort at that, without even a vote) would be to risk alienating their core voters.“At that point, your base collapses,” former National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Tom Davis said before March’s planned health care vote was pulled because of lack of support. “All these people out in those town meetings [protesting repeal and replace] won’t vote for Republicans anyway.”And so, the party is pursuing the repeal of Obamacare out of a desire to ― at a minimum ― show it is still in pursuit. This is true of both the White House, where Trump is reportedly obsessed with scoring legislative victories before his first 100 days in office; among outside groups, which worry that any health care failure will beget failures on other conservative priorities (mainly tax reform); and on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are feeling an acute need right now to convince voters that they remain committed to their seven-year legislative objective.All these people out in those town meetings [protesting repeal and replace] won’t vote for Republicans anyway.  Tom Davis, former National Republican Congressional Committee chairmanThe most recent attempt was launched by Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative Freedom Caucus, and Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), co-chair of the moderate House Tuesday Group.“They want to be viewed as constructive,” one plugged-in GOP lobbyist said of those recent talks. “The actual vote-getting part is not their problem. It’s good PR. Neither side [conservatives nor moderates] actually speak for any significant bloc of votes.”As long as the bill appears to still be alive, it gives Republicans running for re-election something to point to, the thinking goes. This has been the GOP’s electoral formula for seven years already, so perhaps it can be played on the base through the next election, too.But the politics of Obamacare are shifting in ways that make this calculus more complex. Many people who benefit from the Affordable Care Act happen to be the type of low-income voters that flocked to Trump’s candidacy. And recent polls strongly suggest that Republicans writ large are growing more favorable to the law, now that its namesake is no longer in office. A  Public Policy Polling survey from Wednesday showed 27 percent of Republicans supporting it and, more remarkably, just 51 percent opposing it.House aides insist these studies don’t fully capture the political dynamics in which they’re operating. One of the reasons, they argue, that they must continue trying for repeal is precisely because the law is failing in many rural districts ― the type usually represented by Republican lawmakers.“It is not working for a lot of their people,” explained another senior GOP aide, “and they need help.”The problem, though, is that the kind of help needed in rural communities ― greater subsidies, a more generous Medicaid expansion ― are the opposite of what the GOP plan would do. And the proposals the party currently is pursuing have the public and its own members spooked. That apprehension is best reflected in the Senate, where even a conservative like Tom Cotton has pledged to protect the Medicaid expansion in his home state of Arkansas. But it’s also the underlying context of Trump’s routine insistence that he’d prefer to let Obamacare collapse on its own so that Democrats will shoulder the blame and be in a worse negotiating position.Not every Republican subscribes to this theory. In fact, many believe the “ let-it-collapse ” approach would backfire dramatically.“When I hear people say ‘let it fall apart and implode,’ do they really think they will have the political willpower to let that happen?” asked former Rep. Jack Kingston (R-Ga.). “Imagine the news stories. It will focus on how the callous, mean, son-of-a-bitch Republicans aren’t willing to fund whatever. And so and so will be without health care. There is no way Republicans are going to sit back and let this fall apart.”But for all his fear of the politics of inaction on health care, Kingston also recognizes the complexities of acting on it. When he was running for a Senate seat in Georgia in 2014, he was criticized within his own party for suggesting Republicans might consider keeping elements of Obamacare in place rather than taking the entire bill apart. His former colleagues have gradually moved closer to that position. But they aren’t yet ready to fully say goodbye to the concept of repeal and replace. And so, Kingston predicts, they might just do the most congressional thing possible: pass something ― anything ― and let it collapse in the Senate.“I think the way to get it out of the way is to get something to the floor and then blame it on the Senate,” he said. “They just have to.”Any piece of paper will do.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/omaha-mayoral-candidate-under-fire-says-he-would-never-do-anything-to-restrict-access-to-reproductive-health-care_us_58f8e868e4b018a9ce590a84?section=us_politics
Omaha Mayoral Candidate Under Fire For Anti-Choice Past Vows To Protect Reproductive RightsThe Democratic candidate for mayor of Omaha, Nebraska, told The Huffington Post on Thursday that if elected, he “ would never do anything to restrict access to reproductive health care.”The statement comes as  Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and the Democratic National Committee are under fire for embracing Heath Mello, who is trying to unseat the Republican mayor of Omaha and has previously pushed through anti-choice legislation.Mello co-sponsored a bill in 2009 requiring women to be informed that they could see an ultrasound before having an abortion, a move that national groups appeared to be unaware of until just now. Rewire reports further:Mello is a sponsor of the final version of a 20-week abortion ban approved by the governor in 2010, and cast anti-choice votes in favor of requiring physicians to be physically present for an abortion in order to impede access to telemedicine abortion care, and a law banning insurance plans in the state from covering abortions. He was endorsed in 2010 by anti-choice group Nebraska Right to Life.The primary has already passed, so there is no longer the opportunity to back a competing Democrat.Daily Kos , a liberal website that has led fundraising efforts for lesser-known Democrats buoyed by the backlash to President  Donald Trump ,  endorsed the former Democratic state senator last week.  Thousands of dollars quickly poured into his campaign coffers as progressive activists homed in on the May 9 election as the latest opportunity to poke Trump in the eye.But the publication  pulled its endorsement  just a week later, after learning about Mello’s opposition to abortion rights.“We were particularly surprised to learn [Mello is anti-abortion rights] because Mello had earned  a 100 percent approval rating  from Planned Parenthood of Nebraska in 2015,” Daily Kos political director David Nir wrote in a post explaining the decision. “However, as soon as we learned this information, we withdrew our endorsement, because this legislation clearly runs contrary to Daily Kos’ deepest values, including our support for women’s reproductive rights and our staunch opposition to laws that in any way impede women’s access to reproductive health care.”The actions today by the DNC to embrace and support a candidate for office who will strip women — one of the most critical constituencies for the party — of our basic rights and freedom is not only disappointing, it is politically stupid.  NARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse HogueNARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse Hogue went after Mello on Wednesday, before the Kos decision, and slammed the DNC for adding him to its cross-country “Come Together, Fight Back” voter engagement tour.“The actions today by the DNC to embrace and support a candidate for office who will strip women — one of the most critical constituencies for the party — of our basic rights and freedom is not only disappointing, it is politically stupid,” Hogue said in a statement.Prior to Daily Kos’ announcement, Mello’s campaign pointed to his support for Planned Parenthood, Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act when asked about his message for pro-choice progressive voters in the city. And he does not pretend to be a dyed-in-the-wool leftist, noting that he enjoys the backing of both Sanders and centrists like former Sen. Ben Nelson (D-Neb.), for whom Mello once worked.“In his most recent term in the legislature,  Heath Mello voted 100% with Planned Parenthood  Voters of Nebraska,” Mello campaign manager Paige Hutchinson said in a statement. “Heath also supported fighting sex trafficking, reproductive health care for sexual assault survivors, expanding funding for family planning services, expanding Medicaid for low-income working adults, and providing universal prenatal care for all women. He has fought against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act and fought against defunding Planned Parenthood.”PPVN, the political arm of the family-planning organization, pushed back on the claim that it gave Heath Mello a 100 percent rating. The group’s scorecard from 2011 shows Mello “voting against Planned Parenthood’s position on three votes ― all abortion related.”“Planned Parenthood Voters of Nebraska has never endorsed Heath Mello for public office nor has Planned Parenthood Voters of Nebraska given Heath Mello a 100% rating, as some media outlets have erroneously reported,” the group said in a statement.“Heath Mello has introduced and supported anti-choice legislation during his time at the Nebraska Unicameral, and Planned Parenthood Voters of Nebraska strongly opposed him when he took such actions,” the statement continues. “Over the course of Heath Mello’s campaign for Omaha Mayor he has said loud and clear he supports Planned Parenthood and wants to protect the work we do. Although he has not started that conversation with us, our door is always open and we welcome the opportunity to start a productive dialogue on how Heath Mello can help us promote and protect access to women’s health care in Nebraska.”Mello confirmed in his statement that he is personally opposed to abortion rights in general.  “While my faith guides my personal views, as Mayor I would never do anything to restrict access to reproductive health care,” he said in a statement.It’s unclear if that distinction will help him regain the support of groups that have moved against him. It aligns with the position of some Democrats like Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who have expressed personal opposition to abortion rights but have promised not to legislate based on those views. Mello, however, has already legislated based on those views and is now pledging not to do so again.Mello is challenging the Republican incumbent Jean Stothert, who received just  two percentage points  more than him in an April 4 nonpartisan jungle primary. Stothert opposes abortion rights.That close race drew the attention of national progressives, not least because  Hillary Clinton  defeated Trump in Omaha,  51 to 43 percent .Yet Mello’s turn of fortunes with grassroots liberals may ultimately have little impact on his electoral chances next month. One the one hand, he apparently hopes to channel the energy of Democrats and other voters upset by Trump’s policies, emphasizing his support for the Affordable Care Act and being welcoming to refugees and other immigrants.At the same time, he is mostly campaigning on bread-and-butter municipal issues like filling potholes, improving housing affordability, making Omaha more walkable and attracting development to the city.The biggest threat to women’s reproductive rights is the relentless Republican attacks on women’s health care, including legal, accessible abortion services.  DNC Chair Tom PerezWhat’s more, the national Democratic Party continues to embrace Mello. Sanders and Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), deputy chair of the DNC, are due to speak at a rally for Mello and other Nebraska Democratic candidates on Thursday evening.Nebraska Democratic Party Chair Jane Kleeb, who sits on the board of Our Revolution and backed Sanders during the primary,  told the Wall Street Journal  on Wednesday that Mello’s abortion views were not disqualifying.“Voters know he’s pro-life but we have a lot of pro-life Democrats in our state,” Kleeb said. “It’s not the single issue people vote on anymore.”DNC Chair Tom Perez also  defended the party’s support for Mello  in a statement Thursday.“Our job at the DNC is to help Democrats who have garnered support from voters in their community cross the finish line and win ― from school board to Senate,” Perez said. “The biggest threat to women’s reproductive rights is the relentless Republican attacks on women’s health care, including legal, accessible abortion services. And I won’t let anyone get in the way of our fight to protect a woman’s right to choose.”This article has been updated with comment from Planned Parenthood Voters of Nebraska.CORRECTION: A previous version of this story stated the Omaha mayoral election would be May 5. In fact, it is May 9.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-clean-water-rule_us_58f8f703e4b00fa7de1232e4?section=us_politics
Trump Wants Clean Water Rule Gone. Now Comes The Hard Part.Donald Trump’s comments on the campaign trail often were light on detail, especially when it came to environmental policy. But one regular refrain was the promise to destroy the Clean Water Rule.The president is trying to make good on that pledge. Nearly two months ago, Trump signed an executive order directing the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers to “review and reconsider” the Obama-era regulation that was widely celebrated by environmentalists and panned by industry groups and politicians in some states.But Trump’s attempt to trash the measure, also known as the “waters of the U.S. rule,” has hit roadblocks that could snarl his promise for months or years.The Supreme Court this month denied the administration’s request to delay a case intended to sort out which court should handle litigation over the rule. Environmental advocates said they plan further efforts to challenge Trump’s efforts.The Clean Water Rule, imposed by the Obama administration in 2015, clarifies which types of waterways are subject to federal protection under the Clean Water Act, the landmark 1972 law that protects the nation’s water resources from pollution. Republican-led states challenged the rule in court as an overreach of executive authority, and implementation was halted while the case proceeds.Trump’s administration is preparing to repeal the rule and replace it with a weaker version, according to a recent Energy & Environment News report, which cited EPA officials. That would require two cumbersome federal rule-making processes. EPA officials did not respond to a request for comment.The rule-making process would likely happen before the Supreme Court decides which court should handle litigation, which isn’t expected until the end of the year, according to Mark Ryan, an attorney who co-authored the Clean Water Rule during his 24 years at the EPA. He said rule-making will further complicate efforts to get rid of the Clean Water Rule.“If they’re going to repeal it, they’re going to have to say why they’re repealing it. You can’t just say, ‘We’re doing it because we feel like it,’” Ryan told HuffPost.Credit: Isabella Carapella/The Huffington PostPresident Trump has targeted the Obama-era Clean Water Rule for elimination. The rule would protect streams and waterways that provide drinking water for 117 million Americans.The Trump administration’s rationale for repeal would come up against the lengthy scientific record that the rule is based on. Ryan said that record won’t easily be refuted. Further, he said, repeal efforts will likely face public backlash and legal challenges from environmental groups.The EPA’s request for comments on the rule received more than 1 million responses. A rewrite, Ryan said, would likely receive just as many or more.“It’s going to be a huge task simply to go through the rule-making process to withdraw it,” Ryan explained. “So they’ll run into roadblocks trying to repeal the rule and even bigger ones to replace it.”Trump’s EPA appears primed to move forward regardless.The rule specifically protects smaller bodies of water — like streams and wetlands — along with lakes and rivers. The Trump administration appears to be aiming for a much narrower definition of protected waters.An apparent draft of the administration’s proposed rewrite of the rule would reportedly mirror an opinion authored by the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia in the 2006 Rapanos v. United States case. Scalia, joined by three other justices, wrote that federal protections under the Clean Water Act should only apply to larger, navigable bodies of water.But lower courts — as well as the EPA under both the Obama and George W. Bush administrations — have adhered to the interpretation of Justice Anthony Kennedy in his swing vote in the Rapanos case. Kennedy wrote that protected waters should include any waterways that have a “significant nexus” to navigable waters — a definition that has invited confusion, but is clearly more comprehensive than Scalia’s interpretation.Credit: Aude Guerrucci-Pool/Getty ImagesPresident Donald Trump before signing an executive order to begin the rollback of the Obama administration's Clean Water Rule on February 28, 2017 at the White House.A shift to Scalia’s narrower interpretation of the Clean Water Act would threaten protection for streams and headwaters that are drinking sources for an estimated 117 million Americans — one-third of the U.S. population, Geoff Gisler, a senior attorney at the Southern Environmental Law Center, noted.“That interpretation was rejected by five of the Supreme Court justices and has never been applied by the courts or the EPA,” Gisler said. “It wouldn’t have a scientific basis and would have an enormous impact. At a minimum, this would send us back to an era of uncertainty. At worse, we could lose protections for a lot of what we hold dear now.”EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, noted for his close ties with industry interests during his tenure as Oklahoma attorney general, is rumored to be considering a plan to hire private lawyers, instead of EPA employees, for the agency’s rewrite of the rule, Politico reported this week.In a email to HuffPost, a spokesman for the American Farm Bureau Federation, which is involved in the industry coalition Politico claimed might participate in a rewrite of the rule, denied the media outlet’s report, stating that “there was no truth to this suggestion whatsoever.”The Farm Bureau and other industry groups, like the National Mining Association, have been some of the most vocal opponents of the rule, criticizing it as a “federal land grab” that “results in unnecessary hurdles for U.S. businesses.”Pruitt himself has also been a vocal critic of the rule. As Oklahoma’s top attorney, he sued the EPA over the rule in 2015. Since he was confirmed at the EPA, he has reiterated his vow to repeal the regulation.This story has been updated to include a statement from the Farm Bureau.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/mark-green-transgender-evil_us_58f8c4cce4b0cb086d7eb012?section=us_politics
Trump Pick For Army Secretary Says He Opposes Transgender Equality Because He Must 'Crush Evil'Tennessee state Sen. Mark Green (R), President Donald Trump’s choice to be the next Army secretary, believes that part of his mission as a public official is to “crush evil” ― and that opposing transgender equality policies is key to that effort.As head of the Army, Green would oversee a force that’s fully integrated, since the Pentagon ended its ban on transgender people serving openly in June. If confirmed, he would set a significantly different tone than the previous Army secretary, Eric Fanning, who was the first openly gay person to serve in the position.In June, Green said he opposed allowing people to use the restroom that corresponds with their gender identity, rather than the sex assigned at birth. He told an online radio show he believed the matter should be left up to the states rather than the federal government, and then cited the safety of women as a key reason he personally opposes transgender equality in public accommodations.“There are 300,000 rapes in the United States every year,” Green said. “Three hundred thousand women who are sexually assaulted by predators. We know this. It’s documented. It’s factual. To think that some young guy isn’t going to take advantage of the system where we’re going to allow guys to go into the bathroom ― the women’s bathroom ― to think that it’s not going to happen is just ridiculous.”Tennesee General AssemblyPresident Donald Trump picked Tennessee state Sen. Mark Green (R) to be his Army secretary.The need to protect women from sexual predators is a common conservative argument against inclusive bathroom policies. But it’s also a red herring. It’s already illegal for men to sexually assault women, whether it takes place in a bathroom or some other place. Nothing would change in that regard. And leading organizations dedicated to fighting sexual assault say they support transgender equal access.States and localities that have implemented transgender-inclusive restroom policies have also said they have not seen an increase in rape and assault because of these laws.But for Green, there’s also a biblical reason to oppose these policies: He needs to “crush evil”:And as far as the religious argument goes, and this applies to the issue of Syrian refugees as well. There’s a big fuss about whether or not that we should sue the federal government over having to take refugees from Syria into the State of Tennessee, I believe we should sue the federal government in that case because Romans 13 is pretty doggone clear, this is the passage where it tells people to submit to the authorities – meaning, basically if you’re in the government, you should do what the government tells you to do. You know, don’t speed, all that kind of stuff. Obey the laws is basically what the passage says. But what it goes on to say is that because the government exists for two purposes.The government exists to honor those people who live honorably, who do good things – to reward people who behave well and to crush evil. So that means as a state senator, my responsibility very clearly in Romans 13 is to create an environment where people who do right are rewarded and the people who do wrong are crushed. Evil is crushed.So I’m going to protect women in their bathrooms, and I’m going to protect our state against potential infiltration from the Syrian ISIS people in the refugee program. And whoever wants to stand up and take me on that, I’m ready to fight.“The Trump Administration must have been desperate to fill this post because Mark Green’s anti-LGBTQ remarks should disqualify anyone seeking to be in charge of the United States Army, which includes many out and proud soldiers,” said Sarah Kate Ellis, President and CEO of GLAAD, an LGBTQ advocacy group. “Our nation is strongest when we are together ― and calling transgender people ‘evil’ does just the opposite.”Green did not return a request for additional comment on his remarks and views on transgender people.In September, Green told a tea party gathering that he believes being transgender is a disease. (The medical community disagrees.)Green is also the sponsor of SB 127, a bill that would bar government entities from taking “discriminatory action against a business entity on the basis of the internal policies of the business entity” in Tennessee.The state’s nondiscrimination protections do not currently cover discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity, although some municipalities do have stronger rules protecting LGBTQ government employees.Green’s bill, however, would bar local governments and public universities from considering companies’ internal policies (such as whether they discriminate based on gender identity or sexual orientation) when doing business or giving out contracts ― because the legislation considers that to be discriminatory.The bill passed the Tennessee state Senate, but this week, the House deferred the measure until next year.Green is a West Point graduate and physician. He was an Army medic for the special operations team that captured Saddam Hussein in 2003. He later wrote a book about his experience interviewing the former Iraqi dictator.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/scott-brown-new-zealand_us_58f8c765e4b0cb086d7eb9fb?section=us_politics
Donald Trump To Nominate Scott Brown As Ambassador To New ZealandPresident Donald Trump plans to nominate former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown to serve as the country’s next ambassador to New Zealand, a major non-NATO ally of the United States.Brown, who lost his seat to Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) in 2012, endorsed Trump early on in the campaign and helped stump for the real estate mogul during the New Hampshire primary. He was previously considered for Veterans Affairs secretary in Trump’s administration.Brown must still be confirmed by a vote in the Senate, but it appears he already has some bipartisan support:Congrats @SenScottBrown on your nomination for New Zealand Ambassador! You have my support & I'm sure you'll make the people of MA proud.— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) April 20, 2017New Zealand newspapers discovered some of Brown’s colorful past after his name was first floated for the diplomatic posting in February. “Man tipped for US ambassador role in NZ a former nude model who supports waterboarding,” read one headline in the The New Zealand Herald, a major publication in the country.Following a failed Senate run in New Hampshire in 2014, Brown signed up with Fox News as a political contributor.This article has been updated with a tweet from Sen. Elizabeth Warren.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-judge-gonzalo-curiel_us_58f8ab23e4b070a117507bfb?section=us_politics
The Judge In Dreamer Deportation Case Is A Familiar Foe To TrumpThe federal judge who will hear the case of a Dreamer deported under President Donald Trump’s administration is the same judge who faced racist attacks from Trump last year.In June, then-candidate Trump repeatedly accused U.S. District Judge Gonzalo Curiel of being biased against him in a case involving Trump’s fraudulent for-profit university because Curiel is “of Mexican heritage.”“He’s a Mexican. We’re building a wall between here and Mexico. The answer is, he is giving us very unfair rulings — rulings that people can’t even believe,” Trump said of Curiel, who was born and raised in Indiana.On Wednesday, Curiel was assigned the case involving Juan Manuel Montes, an undocumented immigrant who was deported in February, despite being protected under former President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Trump administration officials have disputed his story, acknowledging he did hold DACA status until 2018 but claiming he voluntarily left the country without authorization, which could have led to it being revoked. Montes and his attorneys maintain he was deported and did not leave voluntarily.Curiel received the case purely by chance, as judges rotate through pending cases in their area of jurisdiction. Curiel is a judge in the Southern District of California, where the lawsuit was filed.Trump’s attacks against Curiel last year drew widespread condemnation, even from GOP leaders. House Speaker Paul Ryan (Wis.) called Trump’s remarks “the textbook definition of a racist comment,” though he stood by his candidacy. Some GOP lawmakers withdrew their support of Trump.He’s a Mexican. We’re building a wall between here and Mexico. The answer is, he is giving us very unfair rulings — rulings that people can’t even believe.  Donald Trump on Judge Gonzalo CurielLegal experts say Trump’s comments would not create a conflict of interest for Curiel in hearing Montes’ case against the Trump administration.“It is of interest because of the judge having been previously attacked — unfairly, I think — by candidate Trump, but I don’t think legally there’s much of an issue here,” Kevin Johnson, the dean of the law school at the University of California, Davis, told NBC.Kari Hong, an assistant professor at Boston College Law School, noted to USA Today that Trump frequently lashes out against judges who have ruled against him, such as the judges on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, who halted his executive order banning travel and immigration from seven majority-Muslim countries.“Simply being attacked by the President isn’t a conflict of interest,” she said. “If that were the standard, the entire 9th Circuit Court of Appeals couldn’t handle a single case.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trumps-war-on-federal-science-will-stifle-innovation_us_58f828aae4b01d4eb1e1695c?section=us_politics
Trump's War On Federal Science Will Stifle Innovation And Hurt The EconomyJust after President Trump was elected last November, thousands of American scientists did something unprecedented. Startled by the incoming president’s blatant disregard for the facts, they sent an open letter calling on the new administration and Congress to respect “scientific integrity and independence.” Signed by more than 5,500 scientists, the letter ends with a warning: “We will continue to champion efforts that strengthen the role of science in policymaking, and stand ready to hold accountable any who might seek to undermine it.”If Trump’s scientifically indefensible statements on the campaign trail weren’t disturbing enough, his cabinet appointees, his executive actions rescinding environmental safeguards, and his preliminary “skinny” budget proposing to gut federal science programs have all set off alarm bells.In response, the scientific community is preparing for another unprecedented action. On Saturday, April 22 — Earth Day — scientists and their supporters will gather in Washington, D.C., and more than 400 cities around the world for the first-ever March for Science, kicking off a week of activism capped off by the People’s Climate March on April 29.Never before have scientists seemed this motivated and engaged, and with good reason. Trump’s actions and his proposed budget would not only threaten public health and the environment, they also would stifle American innovation and slow economic growth.That’s right. Most Americans — including the businessman in the White House, apparently — do not fully appreciate how much our economy relies on federal science. The truth is, U.S. corporations, their employees, and the public at large are all heavily indebted to taxpayer-funded research for a wide array of consumer products, pharmaceuticals and technologies. Regardless, Trump’s proposed cuts would hamstring research at federal agencies that have a long history of doing the heavy lifting.Nipping the Nifty 50Let’s start with the fact that you’re reading this on a computer or another electronic device. In 1973, the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) launched a research program called the Internetting project, which developed procedures that allowed computers to communicate across multiple, linked networks. In the mid-1980s, the National Science Foundation underwrote the development of DARPA’s system to provide the backbone of what we now call the Internet.The National Science Foundation’s website includes the Internet in its “Nifty 50” government-funded inventions, innovations and discoveries that we all now take for granted. The list, which includes everything from barcodes and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology to speech recognition and web browsers, amounts to just a small sampling of products and technologies government funding helped spawn.Although Trump’s proposed budget does not specifically mention the National Science Foundation, which currently provides more than $7 billion annually in research grants, it likely will be included in the category of “other agencies” that Trump wants to cut by nearly 10 percent.Defunding Life-Saving Drug ResearchTrump’s proposal does explicitly call for slashing the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) annual budget by 18 percent, from its current $31.7 billion to $25.9 billion, which would bring its funding to the lowest level in at least 15 years (in constant dollars). According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, such a drastic cut “would irreparably harm the ability of the nation’s scientists to develop cures and treatments” and would “have a devastating effect on America’s health security.”An analysis published earlier this month in the journal Science found that more than 30 percent of NIH-funded biomedical studies between 1980 and 2007 were later cited in a patent for a drug, device or medical technology. Nearly a tenth of all NIH grants over the same time period, meanwhile, led directly to a patent.NIH’s commercialization track record has had a significant economic impact. According to a 2013 report by United for Medical Research — a coalition of leading research institutions, patient and health advocates, and private industry — NIH-funded research added $69 billion to U.S. gross domestic product in 2011 alone. If anything, “we’re underinvesting” in biomedical research, says economist Pierre Azoulay, co-author of the recent Science study. “The idea that we’re going to get to a better place by cutting [the NIH budget] is ridiculous.”Running Out of EnergyThe Trump blueprint proposes to cut the Department of Energy (DOE) budget by less than 6 percent, to $28 billion, but would spend more on the DOE’s National Nuclear Security Administration — which runs the nuclear weapons complex — and chop energy-related programs by nearly 18 percent. The Office of Science, which supports research at more than 300 universities and oversees 10 national laboratories, would suffer a 16 percent cut. Many of those labs, including Lawrence Berkeley and Pacific Northwest, conduct studies on bioenergy, electric vehicles, energy efficiency, hydropower and solar energy.The Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy and the Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program, both which invest in cutting-edge energy technologies private investors won’t fund, would be eliminated altogether, as would the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Program, which provides loans to automakers to produce a new generation of fuel-efficient vehicles.Federal Science Trumps Corporate R&DThe Trump administration’s rationale for eliminating these DOE research programs? According to the president’s budget report, the “private sector is better positioned to finance disruptive energy research and development and to commercialize innovative technologies.”In fact, government-funded R&D — not the private sector — is responsible for much of the innovation that drives economic growth. As economist Mariana Mazzucato, author of The Entrepreneurial State: Debunking Public vs. Private Sector Myths, explained in a September 2013 article, “businesses are typically timid — waiting to invest until they can clearly see new technological and market opportunities. And evidence shows that such opportunities come when large sums of public money are spent directly on high risk (and high cost)” research. The private sector’s “fear explains why we have seen venture capital entering, in industry after industry, only decades after the initial high risk has been absorbed by the government.”Rush Holt, CEO at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, agrees that “corporate research, as beneficial as it may be, is no substitute for federal investment in research.”“We need both,” he wrote in a September 2016 column. “But we should recognize that the private sector, with its natural focus on commercial results and return on investment, will not do much of the fundamental research that is necessary for the long-term progress of society.”Holt, who served in Congress from 1999 to 2015 and holds a doctorate in physics, called on the federal government to “fund more vital research for public health, safety, security, economics and quality of life.” The Trump administration’s preliminary budget blueprint, however, indicates that it plans to do the exact opposite, one of the many reasons scientists will be marching this weekend.Some experts point out that gutting federal scientific research would have dire international consequences as well.“If they were enacted, these cuts signal the end of the American century as a global innovation leader,” Robert D. Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, recently told the Los Angeles Times. “America’s lead in science and technology was built on the fact that in the 1960s, the U.S. government alone invested more in R&D than the rest of the world combined, business and government. The Trump budget throws this great legacy away.”Elliott Negin is a senior writer at the Union of Concerned Scientists. Ashanti Washington provided research for this article.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/the-democratic-partys-anti-bernie-elites-have-a-huge_us_58f8af67e4b01d4eb1e169b7?section=us_politics
The Democratic Party’s Anti-Bernie Elites Have A Huge Stake In Blaming RussiaAfter Hillary Clinton’s devastating loss nearly six months ago, her most powerful Democratic allies feared losing control of the party. Efforts to lip-synch economic populism while remaining closely tied to Wall Street had led to a catastrophic defeat. In the aftermath, the party’s progressive base ― personified by Bernie Sanders ― was in position to start flipping over the corporate game board.Aligned with Clinton, the elites of the Democratic Party needed to change the subject. Clear assessments of the national ticket’s failures were hazardous to the status quo within the party. So were the groundswells of opposition to unfair economic privilege. So were the grassroots pressures for the party to become a genuine force for challenging big banks, Wall Street and overall corporate power.In short, the Democratic Party’s anti-Bernie establishment needed to reframe the discourse in a hurry. And ― in tandem with mass media ― it did.The reframing could be summed up in two words: Blame Russia.By early winter, the public discourse was going sideways ― much to the benefit of party elites. The meme of blaming Russia and Vladimir Putin for the election of Donald Trump effectively functioned to let the Wall Street-friendly leadership of the national Democratic Party off the hook. Meanwhile, serious attempts to focus on the ways that wounds to democracy in the United States have been self-inflicted ― whether via the campaign finance system or the purging of minorities from voter rolls or any number of other systemic injustices ― were largely set aside.Fading from scrutiny was the establishment that continued to dominate the Democratic Party’s superstructure. At the same time, its devotion to economic elites was undiminished. As Bernie told a reporter on the last day of February: “Certainly there are some people in the Democratic Party who want to maintain the status quo. They would rather go down with the Titanic so long as they have first-class seats.”Amid great luxury and looming catastrophe, the party’s current hierarchy has invested enormous political capital in depicting Vladimir Putin as an unmitigated arch villain. Relevant history was irrelevant, to be ignored or denied.With dutiful conformity from most Democrats in Congress, the party elites doubled, tripled and quadrupled down on the emphatic claim that Moscow is the capital of, by any other name, an evil empire. Rather than just calling for what’s needed ― a truly independent investigation into allegations that the Russian government interfered with the U.S. election ― the party line became hyperbolic and unmoored from the available evidence.Given their vehement political investment in demonizing Russia’s President Putin, Democratic leaders are oriented to seeing the potential of detente with Russia as counterproductive in terms of their electoral strategy for 2018 and 2020. It’s a calculus that boosts the risks of nuclear annihilation, given the very real dangers of escalating tensions between Washington and Moscow.Along the way, top party officials seem bent on returning to a kind of pre-Bernie-campaign doldrums. The new chair of the Democratic National Committee, Tom Perez, can’t bring himself to say that the power of Wall Street is antithetical to the interests of working people. That reality came to painful light this week during a live appearance on national television.During a 10-minute joint interview along with Bernie Sanders on Tuesday night, Perez was a font of exactly the kind of trite empty slogans and worn-out platitudes that oiled the engines of the dismal Clinton campaign.While Sanders was forthright, Perez was evasive. While Sanders talked about systemic injustice, Perez fixated on Trump. While Sanders pointed to a way forward for realistic and far-reaching progressive change, Perez hung onto a rhetorical formula that expressed support for victims of the economic order without acknowledging the existence of victimizers.In an incisive article published by The Nation magazine, Robert Borosage wrote last week: “For all the urgent pleas for unity in the face of Trump, the party establishment has always made it clear that they mean unity under their banner. That’s why they mobilized to keep the leader of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Representative Keith Ellison, from becoming head of the DNC. It’s why the knives are still out for Sanders and those who supported him.”While Bernie is hardly a reliable opponent of U.S. war policies, he is significantly more critical of military intervention than the Democratic Party leaders who often champion it. Borosage noted that the party establishment is locked into militaristic orthodoxies that favor continuing to inflict the kind of disasters that the United States has brought to Iraq, Libya and other countries: “Democrats are in the midst of a major struggle to decide what they stand for and who they represent. Part of that is the debate over a bipartisan interventionist foreign policy that has so abjectly failed.”For the Democratic Party’s most hawkish wing ― dominant from the top down and allied with Clinton’s de facto neocon approach to foreign policy ― the U.S. government’s April 6 cruise missile attack on a Syrian airfield was an indication of real leverage for more war. That attack on a close ally of Russia showed that incessant Russia-baiting of Trump can get gratifying military results for the Democratic elites who are undaunted in their advocacy of regime change in Syria and elsewhere.The politically motivated missile attack on Syria showed just how dangerous it is to keep Russia-baiting Trump, giving him political incentive to prove how tough he is on Russia after all. What’s at stake includes the imperative of preventing a military clash between the world’s two nuclear superpowers. But the corporate hawks at the top of the national Democratic Party have other priorities.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/republicans-health-care-deal_us_58f819f7e4b0cb086d7df486?section=us_politics
Some Republicans Think They May Have A Health Care DealWASHINGTON ― GOP moderates and conservatives are nearing a deal on health care that in theory could get the Republican alternative to the Affordable Care Act out of the House and over to the Senate. The changes also might move Republicans even further away from passage ― no one really knows.The deal, brokered between House Freedom Caucus chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) and Tuesday Group co-chairman Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), would allow states to get waivers eliminating the so-called community rating provision ― the rule that prohibits insurers from charging higher premiums to people with pre-existing conditions. In order to obtain the waiver, states would have to participate in a federal high-risk pool or establish their own, and satisfy some other conditions.In exchange for that conservative concession, the amendment would reinstate the Essential Health Benefits that were already taken out of the bill ― though, again, states could waive those provisions as well if they were able to show that doing so would lower premiums, increase the number of people insured, or “advance another benefit to the public interest in the state.”That’s according to a white paper describing the amendment, which is the result of weeks of negotiation between Meadows and MacArthur. While they have both agreed to the amendment, supposedly representing a number of conservatives and moderates respectively, the amendment is still being reviewed by the Senate and House GOP leadership.NICHOLAS KAMM via Getty ImagesAdditionally, with Republicans effectively going back on their repeated promises to guarantee coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, the amendment could lose a number of Republicans who already supported the legislation. In short, even though the Tuesday Group and the Freedom Caucus think they have a deal, Republicans writ large might have nothing.Leadership is expected to discuss the amendment on a conference call this Saturday with GOP members, but public opinion might also affect the landscape. Republicans are trying to say their amendment will cover people with pre-existing conditions ― because, first, the legislation still claims those people can’t be denied coverage, and second, because there will be high-risk pools for those people if insurance costs dramatically go up for them.The reality, however, is that insurers would be able to effectively deny coverage by pricing sick people out of the market.“This effectively allows states to eliminate the ACA’s guarantee of access to insurance at a reasonable price for people with pre-existing conditions, in the interest of lowering premiums for people who are healthy,” Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, said upon seeing a description of the proposal. “It seems to tilt heavily towards what the Freedom Caucus has been looking for.”Republicans argue that the high-risk pools would then cover those people, taking them out of the regular insurance pool and lowering prices for everyone else, but high-risk pools have traditionally been underfunded by states and the federal government, resulting in poor coverage and high costs for those who need insurance the most.Those concerns may be significant enough that, even with MacArthur’s blessing, the deal does not win over moderates. The concessions also might not be enough for some conservatives, who have expressed issue with Republicans establishing an advance refundable tax credit to help pay for insurance.Republicans need 216 votes to pass their health care bill, and based on statements from GOP members, even with the support of the entire Freedom Caucus for the amendment, there may be enough moderate hold-outs to prevent passage anyway. (MacArthur doesn’t count as a convert; he supported the last bill, albeit reluctantly.)The amendment wouldn’t seem to address the big concerns moderates have expressed ― like raising the cap on how much insurers can charge seniors or cutting $880 billion from Medicaid. These changes are among the reasons that the Congressional Budget Office predicted the House health care legislation would increase the number of people without insurance by 24 million within a decade.Many Republicans ― particularly in the Senate ― have said such deep cuts are not acceptable. Just this week, Sen.  Tom Cotton  (R-Ark.) said he couldn’t support a proposal that jeopardized coverage for the approximately 300,000 people in his state dependent on the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion.Public opinion has also shifted since the repeal effort began in earnest ― and it has shifted decisively against Republicans and their cause. The Affordable Care Act is  more popular  than ever, and in a recent  Pew Research Center  poll, 54 percent of Americans said they trusted Democrats more than Republicans on health care, while just 35 percent said they trusted Republicans more. That’s the biggest advantage for Democrats on health care since 2009.In short, some leaders in the GOP conference might think they have a deal, but they also might have just found a way to make the bill even more unpalatable for Republicans, thus bringing Congress no closer at all.Still, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) suggested that Republicans were getting close to a deal. “We’re in the midst of negotiating sort of finishing touches,” Ryan said Wednesday during a trip to London.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/bill-oreilly-trump-sexual-harassment_us_58f789c8e4b029063d360141?section=us_politics
Donald Trump’s Rise Laid The Groundwork For Bill O’Reilly’s FallBill O’Reilly weathered sexual harassment charges for more than a decade, but not this time : Fox News  has fired the controversial host.The media company was under extreme pressure from advertisers, protesters and its own employees ― all fed up with a company culture that enabled O’Reilly’s misbehavior for too long.But behind all that was the growing power of women, more emboldened than ever before, to protest sexual harassment and assault. For this, at least in part, we can thank President Donald Trump.Trump’s surprise victory in November sparked a massive wave of energy among progressives, activists and especially women, outraged that the reality TV star had won office despite more than a dozen sexual assault accusations, a record of strikingly misogynistic comments and insults, and a damning video in which he boasted of grabbing women by their genitals and kissing them without consent.You’d think that Trump’s election would have sent the message that speaking up doesn’t matter. Instead, it galvanized an already growing movement.Fox knew about Bill O'Reilly's behavior towards women for 15 years. He was held accountable by good journalism + women-led activism ✌️— Emma Gray (@emmaladyrose) April 19, 2017“I never thought a man who openly bragged about committing sexual assault could get elected,” said Karin Roland, chief campaigns officer for UltraViolet, a women’s group that helped organize several anti-O’Reilly petitions and protests at Fox News headquarters in New York on Tuesday.“Women are now trying to figure out how to make [sexual misconduct] something that would doom a future presidential candidate or aspiring athlete or a Fox News host,” Roland said.Robert Sabo/New York Daily News via Getty ImagesDonald Trump and Bill O'Reilly drink milkshakes at a New York Yankees game in 2010.Pussy-gate was supposed to doom Trump. Last summer, after the tape of his bragging about grabbing women by the genitals was made public, thousands of women shared their own stories of sexual assault on Twitter and other social media. It was a natural next step. For at least the past couple of years, more and more women have been coming forward to tell their own stories of sexual assault and harassment.Long-silenced women told horrifying stories about Bill Cosby in 2015, for example. Roland also pointed to the furor over Stanford student Brock Turner, who served just three months of a lenient six-month sentence for sexual assault last year. His victim bravely spoke up.Trump’s election only added fuel to the fire.“Sometimes you have to take a step back to take two steps forward,” said Amy Siskind, president of The New Agenda, a nonprofit women’s group. She’s been working on women’s issues for close to a decade, after leaving a career on Wall Street. “There is a level of engagement and awakening now,” she said. “I’ve never seen anything like it before.”I just need to say this again: taking down O'Reilly is a pretty damn big deal. The @womensmarch was only the beginning of the Resistance.— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) April 19, 2017The pressure on Fox News to dump O’Reilly began in earnest soon after a bombshell New York Times report on April 1 revealed that the network and the news host had together paid out $13 million to five different women who accused him of inappropriate behavior over a decade and a half. The women alleged that O’Reilly had targeted them with verbal abuse and lewd comments ― even phone calls in which he could apparently be heard masturbating.Two of the O’Reilly settlements happened after Fox News Chairman and CEO Roger Ailes was ousted from the company. Female employees had accused Ailes of sexual misdeeds, including firing host Gretchen Carlson after she declined his sexual advances. At the time, Fox said it would no longer tolerate this kind of misconduct.The New York Times story was a tipping point for advertisers, said Rashad Robinson, executive director of the racial justice nonprofit Color of Change. His group had been pressing companies to stop running ads on “The O’Reilly Factor” for two years, after reports emerged that the news host had lied about being attacked by protesters during riots in Los Angeles in the 1990s. Another group that got on Fox’s case, Sleeping Giants, is actually a loosely organized group of volunteers who came together after Trump’s win to push advertisers to abandon Breitbart News.The Times story was hard for advertisers to ignore, Robinson said. As more of them pulled their spots from O’Reilly’s show ― over 80 have dropped out ― the media ramped up its coverage, Robinson said.Recently, Color of Change created a call line for Fox News employees to report harassment and placed ads online that geo-targeted social media users at Fox headquarters. Robinson hoped the ads were hard for Fox’s human relations department to ignore. “We wanted to encourage employees to speak out,” he said.The ads look like this:Color of ChangeOn Tuesday night, O’Reilly dismissed the idea that Americans were angry at him for good reason. In a statement, his lawyer said they had “uncovered evidence that the smear campaign is being orchestrated by far-left organizations bent on destroying O’Reilly for political and financial reasons.” Yet to come: the promised “irrefutable evidence” of that.But more Fox News employees and contributors have been talking, activists say. Earlier on Tuesday, a black woman who’d once worked at the network said O’Reilly had called her “hot chocolate” and made repeated comments about her appearance.Adding to the pressure on Fox was Megyn Kelly’s example: The rising star left the company in January in part because of O’Reilly’s behavior.“Women are fired up,” Roland said.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/eric-trump-twitter-mean-people_us_58f570d4e4b0b9e9848dec23?section=us_politics
Eric Trump Actually Complained About Mean People On TwitterEric Trump must not be too familiar with his father’s Twitter feed.In an interview with Ireland’s Independent newspaper, the son of President Donald Trump blasted people who are mean on Twitter:“No matter what side it is with, you are always going to get backlash. You are going to have a few people who have nothing better to do than to sit behind a computer and send a mean tweet. It’s unfortunate, but it’s the nature of the game.”Trump was responding to a question about golfer Rory McIlroy, who came under fire on social media after playing a round of golf with the president.Trump’s father, of course, is known for using Twitter as a platform to hurl insults. The New York Times has a list of 325 people, places and things Trump has insulted on Twitter since he declared his candidacy.Eric Trump also complained that politics is “mean.”“Politics is a mean game,” Trump told the Independent. “I always said real estate is the most cut-throat industry in the world ― but it is nothing compared to some of these politicians.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/stephen-miller-womens-issues_us_58f0d523e4b0bb9638e331a4?section=us_politics
White House Adviser Who Opposes Paid Leave, Equal Pay Now Working On Women’s IssuesStephen Miller, a senior adviser to President Donald Trump, is now working on women’s issues in the White House despite having once forcefully argued against paid maternity leave and equal pay legislation, according to unnamed White House officials cited in a Politico report Thursday night.Miller, 31, will work with Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and senior adviser, on women’s issues including family leave and child care, according to Politico’s report.In a White House where men named Steve (Bannon, Mnuchin, Miller) essentially outnumber women in the uppermost ranks, it’s not surprising that a man is working on women’s issues.But Miller’s thinking on women’s issues is troubling, as evidenced by an op-ed he wrote in 2005 as a junior at Duke University. In “Sorry feminists,” he claims that the gender pay gap is a myth. Women make less than men, Miller argues, because men work longer hours, choose higher-paying jobs and take on more dangerous work.“The pay gap has virtually nothing to do with gender discrimination. Sorry, feminists. Hate to break this good news to you,” he writes.“The truth is, even in modern-day America, there is a place for gender roles,” he adds. “I simply wouldn’t feel comfortable hiring a full-time male babysitter or driving down the street and seeing a group of women carrying heavy steel pillars to a construction site.”The essay reveals a lack of understanding when it comes to decades of research on economics and gender inequality, although that’s not very surprising considering Miller’s age when he wrote it.“The image of Stephen Miller, a well-documented misogynist, heading up the White House’s ‘women’s issues’ department would be laughable if it wasn’t so horrifying,” Stephanie Schriock, president of Emily’s List, said in a statement.MANDEL NGAN via Getty ImagesSenior adviser to the president Stephen Miller attends a joint press conference by President Donald Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Feb. 13. He is now working with Ivanka Trump on women's issues, Politico reports.In the piece, Miller argues that closing the pay gap would mean women would have to “trade in jobs like housekeeping for night shifts doing road repairs.”Like a good many pay gap deniers, Miller says women make less because they “choose” to ― ignoring the constraints that gender roles put on our choices. For example, our education system encourages boys to study science and math, which lead to higher-paying jobs. And in the work world, the system favors white men white men like Miller ― in pay and promotions ― over all other demographics. The lack of paid maternity leave also forces women out of the workforce, lowering their pay potential over a lifetime and reinforcing the pay gap.Beyond that, there is research that shows that a pay gap remains, even after you control for the fact that women-dominated fields pay less than male-dominated fields and that women may take longer breaks from the workforce.The truth is, even in modern-day America, there is a place for gender roles.  Stephen Miller, in a 2005 op-edMiller goes farther still in that op-ed, arguing that paid maternity leave ― something that every developed country in the world mandates ― would harm businesses and lead to layoffs. There is plenty of research showing that paid leave actually helps companies lower costs by retaining women ― they’re far less likely to quit jobs, and businesses spend less money hiring and training replacements.At the prompting of Ivanka during the presidential campaign, Trump proposed a paid maternity leave policy of six weeks off for birth mothers. The president seemed to expand on that policy when he mentioned paid family leave during a speech to Congress in February. Nothing has been done on this issue thus far.Ivanka also claimed at the Republican National Convention last summer that her father would work to close the pay gap.This article has been updated with comment from Schriock.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/twitter-trump-lawsuit_us_58e6a5a9e4b0585892c9c5ab?section=us_politics
Twitter Sues Trump Administration Over Alleged Attempt To Unmask Owner Of Anti-Trump AccountTwitter filed a lawsuit against the Trump administration Thursday over allegations that government officials had tried to force the social media company to reveal the identity behind an anonymous account critical of Trump and his immigration policies.The lawsuit alleges that U.S. Customs and Border Protection issued a summons to Twitter in March, demanding that it turn over records that would unmask the identity of the user or users behind the @ALT_uscis, or “ALT Immigration,” account ― an anonymous account that is purportedly run by federal immigration authorities. The account is one of more than a dozen “rogue” federal agency accounts that appeared in the wake of Donald Trump’s January inauguration and posts criticisms of the president’s positions on science, climate change and other issues.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which oversees CBP, was also named as a defendant in the suit, which was filed in federal court in San Francisco, where the company is based.Twitter filed the suit to challenge the order to reveal the account user’s true identity, saying that unmasking users would be a violation of the First Amendment rights of the company and its users.“Compelled disclosure of the identities of Twitter users who have engaged in pseudonymous speech would chill their exercise of the constitutionally protected right to speak anonymously,” the lawsuit reads. “Moreover, independent of its users’ rights, Twitter’s actions in providing a platform for the dissemination of its users’ speech — including its decision to permit the publication of pseudonymous speech — is fully protected by the First Amendment.”The American Civil Liberties Union said it would be defending the user behind the account and their right to anonymous speech on the platform.We're glad Twitter is pushing back. We'll be going to court to defend this user's right to anonymous speech. https://t.co/tqj5XrNvgn— ACLU National (@ACLU) April 6, 2017According to the suit, CBP told Twitter it is “required” to “produce for inspection” all records regarding the @ALT_uscis account including “user names, account login, phone numbers, mailing addresses, and I.P. addresses.”The records are required “in connection with an investigation or inquiry to ascertain the correctness of entries” and to “determine the liability for duties, taxes, fines, penalties, or forfeitures, and/or to ensure compliance with the laws or regulations administered by CBP and ICE,” CBP said in its summons, according to Twitter’s filing. The summons also requested that Twitter refrain from disclosing the existence of the summons “for an indefinite period of time.”The order said that failure to comply with the summons could result in Twitter being taken to federal court, according to the suit.DHS declined to comment on the suit.UPDATE 4/7/17: One day after Twitter filed its suit against the U.S. government, the feds abandoned their effort against the social media company. Twitter has voluntarily withdrawn its lawsuit.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-travel-tab-dwarfs-obamas_us_58ec5dbde4b0df7e2044b2fe?section=us_politics
Trump On Fast Track To Outspend Obama’s Entire Travel Tab In A Single YearAfter racking up an estimated $22 million travel tab in less than three months, Donald Trump is well on his way to spending more in a single year than Barack Obama spent on travel during all eight years of his presidency.Trump has spent 21 days of his 80-day presidency at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, at an estimated cost of $21.6 million in travel and security expenses, CNN reported. In contrast, Obama spent a total of just under $97 million during his entire presidency, according to costs estimated by Judicial Watch.At Trump’s current pace, he will spend $99 million by the end of his first year in office. That would add up to close to $800 million if he served an eight-year term as Obama did.David Moir / ReutersPresident Trump has already spent one-fourth of his presidency hanging out at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach. Cost to taxpayers: $22 million.It’s not clear if Trump will continue his frequent trips to the Florida resort as the temperatures rise. Earlier this month, however, he changed his nickname for Mar-a-Lago from the “Winter White House” to the “Southern White House,” signaling that his trips down south wouldn’t be confined to the winter months.Trump’s frequent visits to South Florida have also taken a toll on the area. Last month, Rep. Lois Frankel (D-Fla.) asked Trump to help pay for the extra security his visits require, a service that has already cost the community $1.7 million.“Please step up to the plate and help us get this money back,’” said Frankel, per WPBF. “And if you’re unable to do that, consider curtailing your travel.”She suggested Camp David as an alternative.Florida lawmakers have also suggested imposing special taxes on Mar-a-Lago to help defray costs. Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw estimated that Trump’s meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping cost the community $250,000 in police overtime.Taxpayers are also footing the bill for a second presidential residence at Trump Tower in Manhattan, where first lady Melania and son Baron reside. NYPD officials estimated that they spend $500,000 a day on security, CNBC reported.Trump’s inflated travel expenditures have become a particularly touchy subject, given the extensive budget cuts he has proposed. Voters and politicians have even started comparing Mar-a-Lago costs to federal funds that could save a program destined for the chopping block.Trump has often boasted that he doesn’t need vacations and prefers to work. He even blasted Obama’s golfing in tweets some 26 times, and at campaign rallies.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-national-park-week-us_us_58f13e9fe4b0b9e9848c1483?section=us_politics
Trump Celebrates National Parks — After Proposing To Slash Their FundingWASHINGTON — On Friday, President Donald Trump proclaimed April 15-23 National Park Week and called protecting America’s national parks a “priority” for his administration.“It is a priority of my Administration to protect these magnificent lands, and to ensure all Americans have access to our national parks, as well as to other National Park Service sites, throughout the next century,” he wrote in his proclamation.As further evidence of his commitment, Trump also took the opportunity to tout his donation to the National Park Service ― his first quarter salary of $78,333.32 ― last week.Critics say the gesture is largely symbolic, since Trump’s budget proposal would slash the Interior Department’s funding from $13.2 billion to $11.6 billion — a 12 percent decrease. The Sierra Club described the donation, meant to preserve the nation’s battlefields, as a “publicity stunt.”The Committee for a Responsible Budget also tweeted about it:Trump’s $78,000 donation to the National Parks Service is how much the government pays in interest on the national debt every 9 seconds.— CRFB.org (@BudgetHawks) April 9, 2017The National Park Service, which oversees the country’s 59 national parks and multiple other natural and historic sites, is a bureau of the Interior Department. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who once vowed to fight Trump’s budget cuts, reversed his position last month, saying the budget proposal “sends a strong signal that we will protect and responsibly manage” America’s national treasures.The notion that the National Park Service would be able to do as much ― or more ― with less money is not reassuring conservationists who worry about an executive order Trump signed last month. Among other things, it makes it easier for oil and gas companies to drill in national parks, Fusion reported earlier this week.“We’re really surprised and disappointed to see the administration come after national parks this way,” Nicholas Lund, senior manager for the National Park Conservation Association, told Fusion. “With all that’s going on in the world, drilling in our national parks should just not be a priority.”An Interior Department spokeswoman told Fusion that while the agency is reviewing rules, it “has no plans to loosen regulations and protections on energy development in national parks nor allow new development in additional parks.”Trump noted the importance of America’s national parks to outdoor enthusiasts, world travelers and those simply seeking to find peace in his proclamation on Friday. “It is my hope that we will pass down these natural and historic sites to our children and grandchildren,” the president wrote.Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, told The Huffington Post in an emailed statement that no one should be fooled by Trump’s “lip service.”“If he actually cared about protecting our parks, he would have never proposed a budget that slashes their funding to historically low levels at a time when investments are needed to maintain America’s best idea,” Brune said. “Our parks and the people and economies they support need real commitments, not empty gestures.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/democrats-grassroots-trump-elections_us_58efd21de4b0bb9638e270c1?section=us_politics
Democrats In Illinois Just Unseated A Whole Bunch Of RepublicansWASHINGTON ―  In a spate of local elections last week in Illinois, Democrats picked up seats in places they’ve never won before.The city of Kankakee elected its first African-American, Democratic mayor. West Deerfield Township will be led entirely by Democrats for the first time. Elgin Township voted for  “a complete changeover,”  flipping to an all-Democratic board. Normal Township elected Democratic supervisors and trustees to run its board ― the first time in more than 100 years that a single Democrat has held a seat.“We had a pretty good day,” said Dan Kovats, executive director of the Illinois Democratic County Chairmen’s Association. “We won in areas we normally would win, but we also won in areas Republicans never expected us to be competitive in. They were caught flat-footed.”These may seem like relatively small victories ― we’re talking about municipal races in towns with tens of thousands of people ― but they fit with a broader pattern that should have Republicans on edge ahead of the 2018 elections: Progressive grassroots activism, exploding with energy since President Donald Trump’s win in November, is  fueling Democratic gains in GOP strongholds.This week, a Democratic congressional candidate in Kansas  nearly pulled off a shocking win  in a heavily Republican district.  In Georgia,  30-year-old Democratic newcomer Jon Ossoff is outpacing his GOP rivals  in a race to replace former Rep. Tom Price. The seat has long been Republican and was once held by former Speaker Newt Gingrich.  These races come after a Democratic  state Senate candidate in Delaware, buoyed by anti-Trump activism, annihilated her GOP challenger in an election that’s traditionally been close .We won in areas we normally would win, but we also won in areas Republicans never expected us to be competitive in. They were caught flat-footed.  Dan Kovats, executive director of the Illinois Democratic County Chairmen’s AssociationIn the case of Illinois, a number of Democrats who just won got a boost from a program launched by Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.) called Build The Bench. It’s an all-day boot camp that offers nuts-and-bolts details for running a successful campaign. Bustos came up with the idea last year when she noticed a dearth of new Democratic candidates for Congress, and decided the best way to help build up her party’s ranks was at the local level.She’s held two boot camps in her district so far ― The Huffington Post attended one of them in March ― and she’s already seeing tremendous payoff. Twelve Build The Bench alumni ran for local seats in this election cycle, and eight of them won. A ninth alum, Rita Ali, lost by one vote in her race for Peoria City Council.“I am incredibly proud that the majority of our graduates who were on the ballot in April municipal elections won their races,” said Bustos. “If we want to be successful in the heartland, we need to connect Democratic candidates for office at all levels with the best practices, skills and expertise needed to run winning campaigns.”Chemberly Cummings and Arlene Hosea are among the Build The Bench alumni who recently won races. They both made history by becoming the first black members of Normal Town Council and Normal Township Trustee, respectively. That is no small feat in a predominately white, Republican region of the state.“There’s this concept in Bloomington-Normal that everybody is conservative,” said Cummings, a 34-year-old State Farm employee. “But we are a group of people who are actually concerned about the issues in our community. I also think ... when you have the representative of a party who is negative, I think you’ll start to see some things change. Nobody wants to be associated with something negative. They want to be associated with the positive.”FotoYetiDemocrat Chemberly Cummings just became the first black member of Normal Town Council in Illinois.Hosea, a 57-year-old former Illinois State University employee, came out of retirement to run for her seat. She hadn’t planned on going into politics, but was deeply affected by Trump’s divisive tone all last year.“I am a descendent of slavery,” she said. “I saw and heard on the campaign trail so much awful rhetoric. My mom is still alive, she’s 90, and she faced racism through all of her childhood. I thought, ‘Arlene, you have to do more. You have to be the change that you want to see.’”As someone born and raised in the area, Hosea said she takes pride in being able to give back to her town’s next generation. She got choked up thinking about how far she and her family have come, recalling how her mom lived through Jim Crow in the South and once watched the Ku Klux Klan drag her uncle out of the house and “almost beat him to death” in front of her when she was a child.“Even if it’s just my seat at the table, they get to see me at that table. I have a voice,” Hosea said, her voice cracking. “In this community, no one has done it. So, it’s time.”Of course, not everyone can win their first campaign. Jodie Slothower, a Build The Bench attendee who HuffPost met in March, lost her race for Normal Township clerk. She is disappointed, of course, but s he’s already onto her next project: fueling the progressive momentum to oust more Republicans, like Rep. Rodney Davis (Ill.). She started a grassroots mobilization group in November, Voices of Reason, and it’s up to 2,000 members.“We have events planned all the way through August,” Slothower said. “We’re going to keep up the pressure on the congressman. We’re figuring out how to take what we’ve learned here and bring it to other communities. We have a lot of work to do.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-europe-wrong_us_58f92bcde4b06b9cb91531eb?section=us_politics
Trump Bound For Europe Soon But Still Doesn’t Understand How It WorksWASHINGTON ― Another European leader to the White House, another news conference, and another display by President Donald Trump of at best a hazy understanding of how Europe works.Standing just feet from Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni at a joint White House news conference, Trump complained about unfair trade relationships and other NATO members failing to “pay their full and fair share for the cost of defense.”“We both seek a trading relationship that is balanced, reciprocal ― I love the word ‘reciprocal’ ― because we don’t have too many reciprocal trading partnerships, I will tell you that, but we will very soon,” Trump said.The grievances were common fare during his presidential campaign, and he has been repeating them to varying degrees during previous discussions and news conferences with United Kingdom Prime Minister Theresa May, Germany Chancellor Angela Merkel, and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.And as they were the earlier times he raised them, they are factually incorrect. Italy, like Germany, uses the Euro currency and is a member of the European Community – which works as a trading bloc. It has no specific trade deal with the United States, although one has been under negotiation for years. Britain, while it has its own currency, is also a European Union member, although it is starting to negotiate its departure following the “Brexit” referendum of last summer.All three are members of NATO, which has never collected dues to pay for a common military. Rather, each country pays for its own military and participates in common defense of the entire group. NATO as a group agreed in 2014 – two years before Trump’s election – that each nation would increase its defense spending to at least 2 percent of the value of its economy by the year 2024.Stoltenberg during his recent White House visit explained this in detail, and Trump appeared to accept it. He went on to take credit for the spending policy, and declared that NATO was no longer obsolete and that he would support it.On the issue of trade, Merkel during her White House visit last month pointed out that Germany had no bilateral trade agreement with the United States. On Thursday, Gentiloni didn’t even bother countering Trump’s trade assertions, but did say that Italy would honor its NATO commitments.“We have also spoken about common commitment to NATO and the goals that were identified in 2014, and the commitments on military expenses, and the contribution that each country must make towards collective security,” Gentiloni said. “We are proud of our contribution.”Italy is to be Trump’s second foreign visit as president, as it hosts this year’s G-7 Summit of the world’s largest democratic industrialized nations. Trump is to start his first foreign trip in Brussels at the annual meeting of the NATO alliance on May 25, and then travel to Taormina in Sicily the next day.Trump as a candidate railed against NATO, accusing the other member nations of cheating the United States by not paying their fair share of the costs. He also claimed other nations, including G-7 members Germany and Japan, were taking advantage of the U.S. through unfair trade agreements.Those stances made European and Asian allies wary of Trump, making his remarks and actions during his coming trip of particular interest to political and military leaders in those regions.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trumps-speaking-at-nra_us_58f19278e4b0bb9638e433bb?section=us_politics
Donald Trump To Speak At NRA Convention — First President In 34 Years To Do SoPresident Donald Trump has agreed to speak at the National Rifle Association’s upcoming annual convention in Atlanta, the organization has announced.The NRA endorsed Trump for president last May and poured money into his campaign after he addressed the forum last year. Trump frequently spoke out in support of the right to carry guns and against “gun-free zones” on the campaign trail. At one point, he urged “Second Amendment people” to do something about Hillary Clinton — a call many viewed as urging violence against his rival, which he denied.“If she gets to pick her judges ― nothing you can do, folks,” Trump said at a North Carolina rally last August, after suggesting Clinton would destroy gun rights. “Although, the Second Amendment people. Maybe there is. I don’t know.”BREAKING: Pres. @realDonaldTrump is speaking at the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum on April 28! #2A #NRAAM2017 #MAGA https://t.co/3Dr2BPAqs4 pic.twitter.com/z8FMXjvnba— NRA (@NRA) April 14, 2017Trump’s Supreme Court judge Neil Gorsuch is a staunch backer of the Second Amendment. The president has also been hacking away at gun restrictions, most notably signing a law eliminating an Obama administration background check requirement aimed at blocking gun sales to certain mentally ill people.The NRA is over the moon about Trump’s appearance on April 28.“The NRA is honored to have the president address our annual meeting at the leadership forum,” spokeswoman Jennifer Baker told Bloomberg. “We’re excited to once again have a president who respects the Second Amendment.”Trump’s son, Donald Jr., a big game hunter, is also a darling of the NRA. He headed up his father’s Second Amendment Coalition advisory group. He’s behind a current push to ease restrictions on the sale of silencers.Trump is the first president to address the NRA’s leadership forum since Ronald Reagan did so 34 years ago. Dick Cheney spoke at the convention in 2004 when he was vice president. George H.W. Bush dropped his NRA membership in 1995 after an organization letter described some federal agents as “jack-booted thugs,” Bloomberg noted.Trump’s secretary of the interior, Ryan Zinke, is also expected to speak at the forum, as are Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), according to the NRA website.The convention, expected to be attended by some 80,000 people, will run from April 27-30. April 28 is the last day of government funding under the current spending bill. The government faces a partial shutdown if Congress doesn’t pass a new spending measure by then, and things could be tense back in Washington.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/michael-flynn-subpoena_us_591393dae4b030d4f1ef8bfe?utm_hp_ref=us-politics
Senate Committee Subpoenas Michael Flynn For Russia-Related DocumentsThe Senate Intelligence Committee has subpoenaed ousted National Security Adviser Michael Flynn for documents related to the committee’s investigation of Russian efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential campaign.The subpoena was announced Wednesday by the committee chairman, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), and ranking member, Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.).According to the senators’ joint statement, the committee sought the documents from Flynn last month, but Flynn’s lawyer denied the request. The senators then decided to move forward with a subpoena.Flynn’s attorney, Robert Kelner, declined to comment on the subpoena.The Intelligence Committee probe is one of several investigating whether Trump’s campaign colluded with the Russian government to influence the 2016 election.The committee has also requested documents from Paul Manafort, who served as President Donald Trump’s campaign manager; Roger Stone, who informally advised Trump during his 2016 campaign; and Carter Page, who served as a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, The New York Times reported last week.Burr on Tuesday threatened to subpoena any Trump campaign officials who did not comply with the committee’s requests.“I think all options are on the table, and I think you can envision what those options are,” he said. “The most severe would be subpoena.”Flynn resigned from his post as Trump’s national security adviser after it was revealed he had discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with that country’s ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Kislyak, prior to Trump’s inauguration.In March, Flynn reportedly sought immunity in exchange for testifying before the committees investigating potential ties to Russia. Kelner said in a statement at the time that his client “certainly has a story to tell, and he very much wants to tell it, should the circumstances permit.”“No reasonable person, who has the benefit of advice from counsel, would submit to questioning in such a highly politicized, witch hunt environment without assurances against unfair prosecution,” Kelner said.The Flynn subpoena came one day after Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, who was overseeing the FBI investigation on alleged collusion with Russia.This is a developing story and has been updated.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/poll-trumps-first-quarter-ratings-lowest-for-a-president-since-wwii_us_58f8e4a4e4b06b9cb9148fd9?section=us_politics
Trump’s First-Quarter Poll Ratings Lowest For An Elected President Since WWIIPresident Donald Trump received substantially worse ratings for his initial months in office than any other president elected to his first term since World War II, according to Gallup.Even those presidents who went on to be unpopular generally enjoyed high ratings during their first months in office after their electoral victory. But Trump’s average rating since Inauguration Day is just 41 percent, Gallup finds, making him the only such president in its polling history to fall short of majority approval during his first quarter.President Bill Clinton, the next-lowest ranked, had an average approval rating of 55 percent for that time period, while Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush enjoyed first-quarter ratings of 63 percent and 58 percent, respectively.GallupHarry Truman, Lyndon Johnson and Gerald Ford are not included because their initial months as president did not follow an electoral victory.What sets Trump apart isn’t a lack of support from his own party. About 87 percent of Republicans approve of his performance, several points above the average for previous presidents and similar to the numbers Obama and Bush saw at this point in their presidencies.Rather, Trump’s ratings reflect the near-complete absence of support from Democrats, just 9 percent of whom approve of his performance so far.Americans’ willingness to support a president across the aisle has shrunk dramatically in recent years. This early in their terms, Presidents Dwight Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon and Jimmy Carter all saw majority support from their opposing party, a feat that seems almost unimaginable in the modern political environment. Even Obama still managed to garner the approval of about 30 percent of Republicans during the first quarter of 2009, while George W. Bush saw a 32 percent rating among Democrats in the first quarter of 2001.Trump’s numbers are also notably weak among independents. Just 37 percent approve of his performance, according to Gallup, compared with 51 percent or more for every other president elected to his first term since Eisenhower.Huffington PostTrump’s “unconventional style suggested his presidency would be like nothing seen before,” Gallup’s Jeffrey M. Jones wrote. “And that has been true, but likely not in the way he or his supporters hoped ― with no honeymoon period to speak of and approval ratings far worse than any president has received this early in his tenure. On his best day, less than half of Americans, 46%, have approved of the job Trump is doing.”Gallup is just one of the pollsters tracking Trump’s approval rating, and its numbers so far have looked slightly less positive than average.But they’re not far off. As of Thursday morning, HuffPost Pollster’s aggregate, which combines publicly available polling, gives Trump about a 43 percent approval rating, with just under 51 percent disapproving. By contrast, in April 2009, Obama’s average rating, though quickly declining from his post-inauguration honeymoon numbers, still stood at just under 60 percent.Huffington PostGallup surveyed 45,111 adults between Jan. 20 and April 19, using live interviewers to reach both landlines and cellphones.Language has been added to clarify that Gallup was looking only at presidents since World War II who were elected to their first terms. Therefore, Harry Truman, Lyndon Johnson and Gerald Ford were omitted from the analysis.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-white-house-anti-semitism_us_58ee6103e4b0cb574bb4e66a?section=us_politics
Trump’s White House No Longer Gets Benefit Of The Doubt On Anti-SemitismIntentionally or not, Donald Trump’s White House has been trafficking in anti-Semitism since Day 1 of his presidency, and throughout his campaign before that.Considering that history ― a remarkably long dossier of insensitive comments, marketing materials and unsavory associations ― it’s impossible to view White House press secretary Sean Spicer’s recent remarks about Syria and Nazi Germany as a mere misstatement.Spicer told a roomful of reporters on Tuesday that Adolf Hitler never used chemical weapons against his own people. He actually coined a new euphemism ― “Holocaust centers” ― to refer to Nazi gas chambers.Spicer’s comments overlooked the fact that German Jews ― Hitler’s own people ― were murdered using poison gas. This could have been a sort of unconscious slip on Spicer’s part ― maybe he doesn’t really see German Jews in Nazi Germany as citizens. More likely, it was just a bad analogy. Never compare atrocities, conventional wisdom advises. Spicer has since issued several apologies.Regardless of Spicer’s mindset or intent, we can’t simply write off his comments as an isolated incident.Joshua Roberts / ReutersLet’s look at the context. Within the first hour of his presidency, on Jan. 20, Trump used his inauguration speech to revive a slogan ― America First ― that was cooked up by Nazi sympathizers before World War II. the Anti-Defamation League pointed this out to Trump during the campaign and asked him to stop using the slogan. He didn’t.Just  one week  later, Jan. 27, the White House put out a statement honoring Holocaust Remembrance Day that  omitted mention  of Jewish people. And for  days afterward , various members of Trump’s staff (including Spicer) defended the statement as being “inclusive,” saying it wasn’t just Jews who suffered during the Holocaust.The next month, Trump and his administration were so slow to acknowledge what looked like a coordinated campaign of bomb threats against Jewish community centers that the president found himself telling an  Orthodox Jewish reporter  that he’s “the least anti-Semitic person that you’ve ever seen in your entire life.”The reporter, Jake Turx, was trying to ask Trump what the administration was doing about the bomb threats. He never got a chance, however. Mid-sentence, Trump cut him off and said it wasn’t “a fair question.” He told Turx― who was wearing traditional Hasidic garb and sporting side curls and a yarmulke ― to sit down.  It was a remarkably insensitive exchange with a Jewish man who was obviously concerned with the safety and security of his own people.In response to growing criticism over anti-Semitism, Trump’s defense has been, essentially, that some of his best friends are Jewish. Son-in-law Jared Kushner, daughter Ivanka and his grandchildren all are Jews, he points out.But this defense rings hollow when you consider not just the abundance of careless flubs and insensitive comments, but some of Trump’s other “friends.”Many of Trump’s biggest supporters are virulently anti-Semitic white nationalists and neo-Nazis ― including former KKK leader David Duke and white nationalist leader Richard Spencer, who’ve been supporting him since the earliest days of his presidential run. Steve Bannon, Trump’s senior strategist, used to lead Breitbart.com, which traffics in white nationalist articles. A top Trump adviser, Sebastian Gorka, reportedly has ties to a Nazi-aligned group in Hungary.Great Trump Speech, America First! Stop Wars! Defeat the Corrupt elites! Protect our Borders!, Fair Trade! Couldn't have said it better!— David Duke (@DrDavidDuke) July 22, 2016Trump also has a disturbing history of using  Jewish stereotypes , reportedly once saying, “The only kind of people I want counting my money are short guys that wear yarmulkes every day.”More recently, the closing  TV ad of his campaign  trafficked in abhorrent Jewish conspiracy theories about billionaire George Soros, bankers, and the “globalist threat” (a coded anti-Semitic insult more recently deployed by Bannon as a slur against two Jewish members of Trump’s staff). During the campaign, there was retweeting of white supremacists and a one-time tweet with a photo of Hillary Clinton and a Jewish star, surrounded by cash ― all images embraced by a certain kind of anti-Semite.When some of your biggest fans and most crucial staff members are outspoken white supremacists, when your campaign and election have revived hatred against Jewish people, when you hire as your chief strategist a guy who runs a website that caters to white nationalists, and when your administration repeatedly makes unforced errors talking about the Holocaust, you have an obligation to do better or we must de facto assume this is on purpose.At a minimum, Jewish issues are something that Trump’s White House should know to treat  with care and seriousness. At a minimum, maybe Trump should have shown up at Monday’s White House  Passover seder .Spicer should understand the problem, and just leave the Holocaust out of his daily talking points.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trumps-epa-cuts-are-going-to-hit-black-people-the-hardest_us_58e69a4fe4b07da81324f5ec?section=us_politics
Trump’s EPA Cuts To Lead Paint Programs Are Going To Hit Black People The HardestDuring a 2016 campaign speech to a mostly white crowd in Dimondale, Michigan, soon-to-be President Donald Trump directed a plea to black voters in the upcoming general election.“You’re living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs. Fifty-eight percent of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose?” he bellowed into the microphone.A few days later, Trump told black voters at a rally in Austin that his law and order policies “will make your streets safe so when you walk down the street, you don’t get shot, which is happening now.” A month later, during the first presidential debate, Trump doubled down on his belief that America’s inner cities are like dangerous war zones, saying African-Americans and Latinx people in the hood were in fact “ living in hell .”In October, the Trump campaign released his  New Deal for Black America , boasting about a goal of investing $1 trillion in infrastructure over a 10-year period, naming the “inner cities” as a “major beneficiary.”But, on March 31, a 64-page budget memo for the 2018 fiscal year obtained by The Washington Post revealed that officials within the Environmental Protection Agency want to  eradicate two programs that curb children’s exposure to lead paint . This proposed cut would include the Lead Risk Reduction Program, which trains building renovators on safe paint removal, maintains federal safety standards and educates the public on the detrimental health effects of lead exposure.While this is just a proposal at the moment, one thing is clear: poor black people, especially children, would be hit the hardest despite Trump’s promises to protect them.The cuts, a spokeswoman for the EPA told The Washington Post, are intended to give state and local governments “the responsibility for funding state and local entities.”Funding for programs fighting lead poisoning has already suffered.  In Chicago, where more than 10,300 kids under the age of six suffer from elevated levels of lead in their blood, officials were  already spending less on combating lead paint  due to reduced federal funding from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Cuts to EPA programs could exacerbate the situation via a $14.05 million reduction in grants devoted to state and local programs addressing lead poisoning.Plus, only 14 states, according to The Washington Post, operate programs to properly train contractors on removing lead paint. The other 36 depend on the federal government.Remember all that talk about helping the "inner city?" Well lead poisoning and clean air are two of the big child health issues there.— Vann R. Newkirk II (@fivefifths) April 6, 2017Between 1997 and 2001, the CDC estimates that  60 percent of children with confirmed elevated blood-lead levels were black . Most of them live in poor, predominantly black areas like  Cleveland’s Glenville neighborhood  where 26.5 percent of 286 children tested in 2014 had lead levels greater than five micrograms per deciliter. And, a 2005 study in the Journal of Environmental Health Perspective discovered that kids living in the inner city were  further exposed to lead from soil blowing across playgrounds .A 2015 HuffPost analysis found  a strong correlation  between high black populations and high lead poisoning rates.Baltimore and Detroit ― which are nearly 64 and 83 percent black, respectively ― have a two-pronged issue of older, dilapidated housing and extreme poverty.  Even though Baltimore was the first city in the country to prohibit the use of lead paint in 1951, at least 218,700 homes were built before the ban, according to data from the American Housing Survey. The AHS shows that at least 966,000 homes in Detroit were built before lead paint use was banned nationwide in 1978.And, in 2015, Baltimore had over 16,700 blighted properties, while Detroit had at least  80,000 . As of 2013, eight percent of kids in Detroit had elevated blood-lead levels, which is 16 times the national average, and nearly two percent of kids in Baltimore had high levels as well.The problem extends beyond Rust Belt cities. HuffPost found that more than five percent of children in Savannah, Georgia, which is 57 percent black, have elevated blood-lead levels compared to 0.5 percent of children nationally. Four percent of children in Montgomery, Alabama and three percent of kids in Birmingham, Alabama ― both of which have populations that are over 50 percent black ― also have elevated blood-lead levels.One part of Trump’s New Deal was to improve education and reduce crime in black communities. But the “lead kids” who make it to adulthood often suffer from lower IQ scores, behavioral disorders, hyperactivity and a lack of impulse control ― all of which can lead to high crime rates and a high number of repeat offenders.We see this in the life of 25-year-old Freddie Gray who, after being lead poisoned as a child, did poorly in school and had frequent run-ins with law enforcement until his 2015 death in police custody. Korryn Gaines, a 23-year-old black woman killed by Baltimore County police in 2016 following an hours-long standoff,  sued the owner of two Baltimore homes  she lived in as a child, claiming a “sea of lead paint” had made her ill. Some of those exposed to lead as children will be further taken advantage of by racist systems ― such as  the sale of structured settlements , an industry that has been shown to specifically target poor black people who have settled lead poisoning suits against slumlords.Trump’s White House has neither proposed a solution to the lead paint crisis, or its consequences, nor has it offered alternatives to alleviate the cuts and uphold the promises made in the “New Deal for Black America.” Any future initiatives against lead poisoning from a federal level are uncertain.But the cuts do make one thing clear: The president isn’t looking to eradicate environmental racism or deal Black America a new hand in the 2018 budget blueprint.If you're always angry about politics, sign up for bruh., a sporadic newsletter by Julia Craven.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-steve-bannon_us_58ee9aaae4b0b9e984891ac5?section=us_politics
Trump Again Downplays Steve Bannon’s White House RolePresident Donald Trump again downplayed top White House adviser Steve Bannon’s influence Wednesday amid speculation that the former Breitbart News executive is falling out of favor with the president.In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, the president described Bannon as “a guy who works for me.” According to the paper, the president also described himself, not Bannon, as his own “strategist.”Trump’s latest comment comes one day after he declined to express his full support for Bannon, and one week after Bannon was removed from the National Security Council — two signals that his role in the administration may be diminishing.“I like Steve, but you have to remember he was not involved in my campaign until very late,” Trump told New York Post columnist Michael Goodwin. “I had already beaten all the senators and all the governors, and I didn’t know Steve. I’m my own strategist and it wasn’t like I was going to change strategies because I was facing crooked Hillary.”According to multiple reports, Bannon has repeatedly clashed with Trump’s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, representative of a larger ideological divide between two warring factions within the White House. The conflict has largely played out in the press, with both sides leaking unflattering details about each other to reporters.Last week, Trump reportedly told the two to “cut it out” and ordered them to meet to work out their differences.“Steve is a good guy, but I told them to straighten it out or I will,” Trump told Goodwin.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-tax-plan_us_58f95f8de4b018a9ce59d665?section=us_politics
Trump Tax Plan To Rely On Future U.S. Growth To Fund Cuts: OfficialsU.S. President Donald Trump’s tax reform plan will rely largely on future revenue gains from faster economic growth to justify major tax cuts, top Trump advisers said on Thursday.As Trump’s first 100 days in office draw to a close, the disclosure is the latest sign that the White House could part ways with congressional Republicans who want to pay for tax cuts by taxing imports and eliminating a business tax deduction for debt interest payments.“Some of the lowering in (tax) rates is going to be offset by less deductions and simpler taxes,” Treasury Secretary Mnuchin said in a question-and-answer session on the sidelines of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank spring meetings in Washington.“But the majority of it will be made up by what we believe is fundamentally growth and dynamic scoring,” he added.Dynamic scoring is a little-known government forecasting method that uses economic modeling to predict changes in revenues resulting from economic growth spurred by new tax and economic policies.Republicans believe major tax reform would drive annual U.S. economic growth above 3 percent. But if anticipated improvement fails to materialize, the strategy could rob the Treasury of tax revenue and saddle the economy with bigger deficits and higher debt burdens.Mnuchin said dynamic scoring could give Trump and Congress a $2 trillion revenue cushion for the first major overhaul of the U.S. tax code since 1986.Gary Cohn, director of Trump’s National Economic Council, told the same gathering that dynamic scoring would help avoid deficit-funded tax cuts that could not be made permanent under Senate fiscal rules.“Using dynamic scoring may allow us to get to a permanent solution,” Cohn said. “We would like a permanent solution.”A congressional tax plan backed by House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan would raise over $2 trillion with a border adjustment proposal to tax imports while exempting exports from taxation, and by eliminating net interest deductions for businesses. But both measures have fierce opponents among businesses and Republican lawmakers.Mnuchin said border adjustment could hurt U.S. exports by driving the dollar higher, or fuel consumer inflation if the dollar does not rise.The administration’s goal is to unveil a plan soon that can quickly pass the House and Senate.“This won’t take ‘til the end of the year,” Mnuchin said. “It will be sweeping, it will be significant and it will create a lot of economic growth.”(Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir and Jason Lange; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/khizr-khan-tom-perriello_us_58f75fd9e4b05b9d613ebc6f?section=us_politics
Khizr And Ghazala Khan Endorse Democrat In Virginia Governor’s RaceKhizr and Ghazala Khan, the Gold Star family that delivered one of the most powerful messages at Democratic National Convention , have endorsed Tom Perriello in the Virginia gubernatorial race.The couple sent out a fundraising email on Perriello’s behalf Wednesday morning. The message focused on President Donald Trump’s attempts to ban Muslims from the U.S., citing Islamophobic attacks and highlighting how the candidate they’re backing would fight back.“Resisting President Trump and defeating the hate and bigotry that he sows will take people of conviction and good conscience standing up and fighting back. Tom Perriello is one of those people,” said the Khans in a statement that the Perriello campaign released. “We support Tom Perriello for governor and will be voting for him in June because he will fiercely resist the unconstitutional actions of President Trump while advancing an inclusive Virginia that welcomes all.”Perriello was the couple’s congressman in Virginia from 2009 to 2011.He is running against Virginia’s Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam in the June 13 Democratic primary. Perriello has worked to create an anti-Trump message and has earned the support of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).The Khans’ son Capt. Humayun Khan, who like his parents was a naturalized citizen, was protecting his fellow soldiers when a bomb killed him in Iraq.In one of the most enduring images of the Democrats’ convention, the soldier’s parents appeared on stage, where Khizr Khan attacked Trump’s anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim rhetoric, saying the businessman had “sacrificed nothing.” Khizr Khan held up a pocket constitution and said, “Let me ask you, have you even read the U.S. Constitution? I will gladly lend you my copy.”Following the November election, Khan urged Trump  to unite  the country. He has pressed for boycotts of “anything and everything” if Trump’s Muslim ban is not repealed.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-jr-fake-news_us_58f3f344e4b0b9e9848cbd13?section=us_politics
Donald Trump Jr. ‘Fake News’ Shirt Part Deux: Twitter Beats Him UpWhat could be funnier than Donald Trump Jr. wearing a bright green T-shirt emblazoned with the label “very fake news”? The response on Twitter, of course.Trump Jr. apparently thought it was a stinging criticism of the mainstream media to pose poolside in the top over the weekend, and vowed to send similar shirts to his media “pals.”That was all it took to get Twitter up and running. Alongside countless one-line zingers mocking Trump’s eldest son, some users took to Photoshop, placing Jr. and his “fake news” garb within actual historical events, such as the moon landing and George Washington crossing the Delaware.Then there were the scores of tweets sending very different messages.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/this-is-what-happens-when-you-try-to-get-congress-high_us_58f922f6e4b00fa7de12a150?section=us_politics
This Is What Happens When You Try To Get Congress HighWASHINGTON ― By design and tradition, the Senate moves slowly.Or maybe it just feels slow.That was one of many questions surrounding an event held Thursday just one block from the U.S. Senate. Local marijuana advocacy organization DCMJ was marking the unofficial cannabis holiday on April 20 ― better known as 4/20 ― by handing out free joints to members of Congress and their staffs. The event was being billed as a ― wait for it ― “Joint Session For Congress.”The scene was a bizarre confluence of buttoned-up Washington politicos and cannabis enthusiasts. Sheepish bureaucrats in pressed khakis presented their official IDs to volunteers as DCMJ officials barked the play-by-play over a megaphone. (”Send our love to Tulsi Gabbard!” one exclaimed after a staffer for the Democratic Hawaii congresswoman received his two joints.) Curious Republican staffers kept their distance (”Y’all here to watch the weed thing?”) as volunteers in T-shirts stamped with slogans such as “DOPE NATION” and “Make America Kind Again” handled crowd control. Wonky congressional reporters shuffled about beside local potheads who inquired whether they absolutely needed to be a congressional employee to get a J. (”Guess I gotta go buy me a bag now!” exclaimed one disappointed onlooker wearing a bucket hat patterned with marijuana leaves.) One activist from Smart Approaches to Marijuana, a group that opposes cannabis legalization, handed out bags of Cheetos with anti-marijuana talking points stapled to them.Put another way, what transpired Thursday was arguably the year’s foremost gathering of Washington navel-gazers and people who literally gaze at their navels because they’re stoned out of their minds.Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via Getty ImagesVolunteers with DCMJ hand out joints during the 1st Annual Congressional Joint Session pot giveaway to credentialed Hill staff and the media near the Capitol on April 20, 2017.The event was ostensibly being held to raise awareness of legislation in Congress that would allow the District of Columbia to regulate the sale of marijuana ― voters in 2014 passed a referendum allowing for the possession and consumption of small amounts of marijuana but did not specify how to regulate its sale. Attempts by the D.C. Council to regulate the sale of marijuana in the District have hit a roadblock in Congress, which has veto authority over the council.“It’s the same hypocrisy that governs everything else around here,” said a staffer for the House’s chief administrative officer, who asked that his name not be published. He said he had begun smoking marijuana regularly six months ago to manage chronic pain.“Look around, you can talk to other people and find out how common [marijuana use] is,” said Tyler, a District resident and volunteer who asked that his last name not be published. “I’m not the only one ― it’s not just white guys with long hair that smoke weed, man.”But for all the hazy revelry on display, the event underscored a very serious matter ― one that organizers certainly wanted attendees and journalists to ponder ― can you  legally  hand out pot one block from the U.S. Capitol? The answer is complicated.While federal law still prohibits marijuana consumption, a 2013 memo issued by the Obama administration effectively left enforcement and regulation up to the states, and the Trump administration has yet to reverse it. A number of local events in which cannabis seeds were handed out for free have gone off without interference from the authorities, and several delivery services have sprung up in which customers purchase a product ― such as a box of cookies or bottle of juice ― and receive a small amount of marijuana as a “gift.”However, the District of Columbia is entwined with the federal government in ways the 26 states that have passed laws loosening marijuana regulation ― or outright legalizing consumption ― are not. While someone may be inclined to take advantage of Washington’s consumption laws in one of its beautiful parks, many of the District’s outdoor spaces are actually managed by the Interior Department.Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via Getty ImagesAdam Eidinger, right, of DCMJ, and RachelRamone Donlan, left, are stopped from handing out joints during Thursday's pot giveaway. The joint handout began again shortly thereafter.That jurisdictional tension was on full display Thursday, as U.S. Capitol Police arrested a number of organizers, including DCMJ’s director, Adam Eidinger. While officials allowed the event to proceed, the Capitol Police later attributed the arrests to the organizers’ intention to distribute marijuana.“At approximately 12:18 p.m. today, United States Capitol Police (USCP) officers began arresting several individuals after witnessing them distributing marijuana in public view to passersby at First and Constitution Avenue, NE,” said the statement from USCP spokeswoman Eva Malecki. “Under federal law, it is unlawful to possess marijuana.”In an interview with The Huffington Post, DCMJ Communications Director Nikolas R. Schiller  said the location of the giveaway was chosen not just to raise awareness of their legislative agenda, but to highlight the apparent contradiction between what types of substances congressional staffers can and can’t consume.“There’s a lot of trade organizations that have events with free alcohol,” Schiller said, “and staffers can go and have their free alcohol. It’s not a big deal.”Schiller added that the giveaway’s location ― on the corner of First Street Northeast and Constitution Avenue ― was the closest the group could get to the Senate without leaving D.C. territory (most federal offices in Washington sit on federal land out of the jurisdiction of the D.C. government and police).While organizers said upward of 30 congressional staffers had come forward to claim their free weed in the first hour alone, the actual number was significantly less, owing in no small part to the numerous television cameras trained on the table organizers had set up to distribute the joints. With Congress on recess, there were no lawmakers around to take advantage of the giveaway ― though few legislators likely would have shown up even if they were in town.That said, members of Congress and their staffs aren’t under terribly close scrutiny when it comes to drug use. As Schiller noted, members of Congress and their staffs are not subject to the drug testing statutes that keep other federal employees, including contractors who work in Congress, from consuming marijuana.“Hill staffers that work for members of Congress are not required to submit urine tests, while the contractors like janitors are required to,” Schiller said. “After cleaning so many toilet bowls at work, someone might want their own bowl, yet they could lose their job.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/neil-gorsuch-trinity-lutheran-church-v-comer_us_58f6454ae4b0bb9638e6d0a2?section=us_politics
Neil Gorsuch Could Cast Decisive Vote In Biggest Church-State Case In A Long TimeOn his first day on the Supreme Court bench, Justice Neil Gorsuch seemed eager to make a good impression with his colleagues and the public, even if the cases themselves weren’t exactly headline-grabbing.All eyes will once again be on the court’s newest member Wednesday, as he and his colleagues wrap their brains around what’s arguably the most explosive church-state case the justices have heard in decades. And where Gorsuch could, conceivably, cast the tie-breaking vote.The case’s timing underscores Gorsuch’s importance in the matter: Trinity Lutheran Church v. Comer, as this Missouri case is known, has been lying dormant on the court’s docket since before the death of Justice Antonin Scalia.In January 2016, less than a month before Scalia’s passing, the Supreme Court agreed to consider the dispute — a constitutional challenge to Missouri’s decision to deny funding to a church that had applied for a state grant to resurface its school’s playground with tire scraps. In response, Trinity Lutheran sued the state in federal court, claiming that its Department of Natural Resources discriminated against and violated the church’s right to freely exercise its religion under the U.S. Constitution.“Excluding Trinity Lutheran from the Scrap Tire Program here exhibits an undeniable hostility to religion that offends the Constitution’s essential mandate of religious neutrality,” lawyers for the church charged in a brief filed last April.That was a year ago. But once President Donald Trump nominated Gorsuch in January, the court scheduled the dispute for oral arguments in April — perhaps anticipating that the Senate would get around to confirming the new associate justice by then and the Supreme Court would have a full bench.Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesIn a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court in 2014 sided with the arts and crafts chain Hobby Lobby in its religious challenge to the contraceptive coverage requirement of the Affordable Care Act.Barry Lynn, the executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, a group that advocates for a strong wall between religious freedom and government intrusion, said Gorsuch’s record as an appeals judge suggests where his loyalties might lie in a case of this magnitude.Gorsuch has displayed an “apparent disinterest in preserving what we consider legitimate religious freedom rights and substituting a view that has developed in the last decade or so,” said Lynn, whose group joined with other religious and civil liberties organizations and filed a legal brief supporting Missouri.“We were not happy about Neil Gorsuch’s confirmation,” Lynn added.The Trinity Lutheran case has all the elements of a blockbuster: a sympathetic religious school, claims that Missouri discriminated against it, and a tug-of-war between the federal Constitution and the state’s own charter, which prohibits that public funds be given to “any church, sect or denomination of religion.”Dozens of organizations have also filed briefs in the dispute, and so far Trinity Lutheran appears to have more friends supporting it — the coalition includes major denominations, Christian colleges, members of Congress and conservative-leaning states.Alliance Defending Freedom, the legal advocacy group defending the church before the Supreme Court, wasn’t shy about its endorsement of Gorsuch. In a news release praising his confirmation, the group called him “a natural successor to Justice Scalia.”In an interview, Erik Stanley, a senior attorney with Alliance, pointed to Gorsuch’s record as a judge as a harbinger of how he might approach Wednesday’s hearing.“We do know that Justice Gorsuch has been a friend to religious liberty in the cases that have appeared before him,” Stanley told The Huffington Post. “He’s had the opportunity to rule on religious liberty issues a few times. He’s always been positive to religious liberty. We hope that that continues in this case.”It is not for secular courts to rewrite the religious complaint of a faithful adherent.  From Judge Neil Gorsuch's concurrence in the Hobby Lobby caseBut Stanley added that he hopes “all nine justices” on the Supreme Court see Missouri’s treatment of Trinity Lutheran as “blatant religious status discrimination” — since the program under which its school applied for funds was supposed to be applied neutrally to all schools, no matter their affiliation or lack of one.Gorsuch’s strongest endorsement of religious freedom to date came in none other than the controversial Hobby Lobby case, a religious challenge to the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that employers provide free contraceptive coverage to all employees. Before that case headed to the Supreme Court, the judge wrote a pointed concurrence supporting the Green family, the Hobby Lobby owners who claimed that complying with federal law would be a “substantial” burden on their Christian faith.“As the Greens describe it, it is their personal involvement in facilitating access to devices and drugs that can have the effect of destroying a fertilized human egg that their religious faith holds impermissible,” wrote Gorsuch in 2013. “And as we have seen, it is not for secular courts to rewrite the religious complaint of a faithful adherent, or to decide whether a religious teaching about complicity imposes too much moral disapproval on those only indirectly assisting wrongful conduct.”During his confirmation hearings in March, Gorsuch defended his court’s decision in that case, which was later upheld by an ideologically split Supreme Court. The high court ruled that religiously owned corporations were covered by a federal law that limits how the government may burden a person’s exercise of religion.Gorsuch told members of Congress they could always go back to the drawing board and rewrite the law.“It has all of those options available, Senator,” Gorsuch said during an exchange with Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) during his hearings. “And if we got it wrong, I’m sorry. But we did our level best, and we were affirmed by the United States Supreme Court. And it’s a dialog — like any statutory dialog between Congress and the courts.”In the Trinity Lutheran case, the stakes are even higher because a majority of the Supreme Court could be convinced to read the First Amendment of the Constitution as providing a ceiling for how states may restrict funding to churches and religiously affiliated entities.The state of Missouri, at least until a new governor took office in January, maintained that its constitution treats all churches equally — and that its funding prohibition shouldn’t be seen as proof of religious bigotry.“Trinity Lutheran remains free, without any public subsidy, to worship, teach, pray, and practice any other aspect of its faith however it wishes,” read the brief signed by lawyers from its prior administration. “The State merely declines to offer financial support.”In 2004, the Supreme Court upheld a similar Washington State constitutional provision that denied funding to college students pursuing “devotional” theological studies. But the court that decided that case looked a lot different than the present court — which has since decided Hobby Lobby and has been more amenable to religious claims.Gregory Lipper, a former church-state litigator with Americans United who is now in private practice, said things could continue down that path now that Gorsuch is on the court.“He may well cast the decisive vote holding that Missouri taxpayers are required to fund the church’s renovations,” he said.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/kansas-special-election_us_58ebe24be4b0df7e20447376?section=us_politics
Kansas Democrats Show Just How Big The Anti-Trump Wave Actually IsVoters in Kansas’ 4th Congressional District headed to the polls on Tuesday in an unexpectedly close race. And going into the day, there appeared to be a chance they would send President  Donald Trump a rebuke in the first federal election since he won the White House in November.In the end, Ron Estes, the Republican state treasurer defeated Democrat James Thompson, but early voting numbers showed more enthusiasm than usual among Democrats. Perhaps emboldened by this as the election approached, Thompson openly embraced support from a group that Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) backs.Conceding defeat, Thompson vowed from the stage that he would run against Estes again in 2018.The contest was over the seat formerly held by Mike Pompeo, the tea party congressman Trump picked to run the CIA. Republicans have a considerable advantage in the district, which is home to Koch Industries, as Pompeo was re-elected by over 31 points in November.Despite the assumed GOP advantage, Thompson, a civil rights attorney and Army veteran, had raised about $240,000 in small donations, much of which came in the waning days of the race.Mark Reinstein via Getty ImagesDemocrat James Thompson could pull off an upset.National leaders from both parties have taken note, indicating the closeness and urgency of the race. After weeks of ignoring the surging Democratic enthusiasm in the district, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee on Monday  gave Thompson a last-minute boost , making live calls to voters on his behalf.The Democratic National Committee also recorded last-minute robocalls, and on Tuesday   morning, party Chairman Tom Perez urged Democratic voters to go to the polls, tweeting a link to Thompson’s campaign website.Polls are open in Kansas' 4th district—it's time to get out and vote for @JamesThompsonKS. Find out where: https://t.co/DOgwhqXdVj pic.twitter.com/VWRNlhzRuk— Tom Perez (@TomPerez) April 11, 2017Republicans dispatched high profile surrogates including Vice President Mike Pence and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and spent nearly $120,000 in the final days of the campaign, signaling how scared they were in a race that should have never even been close. Trump himself  even recorded  a phone call for Estes at the last minute and tweeted his support on Tuesday morning.Ron Estes is running TODAY for Congress in the Great State of Kansas. A wonderful guy, I need his help on Healthcare & Tax Cuts (Reform).— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2017Trump goes full Trump in his robocall for Ron Estes in #ks04. Here's a transcript: pic.twitter.com/hCazA0unCN— Alexis Levinson (@alexis_levinson) April 10, 2017Last week, before the GOP intervention, internal polling showed Estes with  only a single-digit lead , The New York Times reported on Monday.Thompson told The Huffington Post in an interview over the weekend that even if he lost, he would still consider the race a victory for Democrats because it shows that they can make Republican strongholds competitive.And Democratic officials, who initially saw the race as a long shot, finally seem to be warming to that idea.Attempting to explain their initial reluctance to intervene, a DCCC official told HuffPost on Monday that its involvement would have been “extremely damaging” because the GOP would use it against Thompson. But the unexpected Democratic mobilization provoked a change in strategy.“Now that the race is being nationalized, and the involvement of a national party committee can’t be used against him, we don’t want Thompson to go unprotected,” the official said, adding that the race provides an opportunity to test the party’s strategies for future elections.On Sunday  , Thompson said that regardless of the outcome of the race, he felt he had already won because he had shown that Democrats could make a Republican district competitive by running on an unapologetically progressive platform.The Kansas election, said Thompson, was as much a referendum on Gov. Sam Brownback as it was on Trump. In that sense it was a referendum on extreme conservatism itself, or at least Brownback’s version of it, said Jeff Emerson, an attorney in Wichita. “The general population recognizes this has certainly not worked well,” Emerson said. “Voters are just generally more aware of cause and effect here than they were three to five years ago.”He said he voted early for Thompson. He typically votes Democratic, he said, but is registered as a Republican, like many others in the city, so that he can vote in Republican primaries for judicial elections. Often, Democrats don’t bother to put up a candidate. “There’s a lot of people in Wichita who do that so they have some voice in who emerges out of the primary,” he said.The DNC, however, has figured out Emerson’s leanings, and calls him regularly for donations. “I can’t tell you how many times the DNC has called me for money, and my stock answer is, tell me how much money you’re putting into Kansas politics, and I get a deer-in-the-headlights silence,” he said. But he added he was heartened to see the last-minute effort the national party put in.Richard Mendoza, a Wichita hair stylist, is a registered independent who typically votes Democratic, he said, but has voted independent or Republican in the past. He voted at his neighborhood church Tuesday morning, and said it was bustling. A surprisingly high number of his clients and other people he has spoken with also voted in the election, he said. “Quite a few people are getting more involved as far as resistance,” he said. “More people seem to be more knowledgeable of even these smaller elections.”An aide to Perez noted that the DNC chairman has been in the job just a few weeks and took the lead of the DCCC in the Kansas race. But, the aide added, the closeness of the race makes the argument for a 50-state strategy, which both Perez and his opponent-turned-deputy-chair Keith Ellison ran on.“Tom is working to rebuild the party so that we’re investing in all 50 states, and while he’s making progress, we’re not there yet after a month as DNC chair,” the Perez aide said. “In this instance, the DNC followed the lead of the local party and DCCC. But it showed us exactly the reason why Tom is looking to start a national coordinated table so that we’re bringing various voices to the table to talk strategically about opportunities to pick up seats and how we can all use our resources to help candidates up and down the ballot.”The Kansas race is one of three special elections across the country where Democrats could win in places traditionally dominated by the GOP. In Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, early numbers look good for Jon Ossoff,  a 30-year-old  running for the seat once held by Newt Gingrich that Tom Price had vacated to become secretary of Health and Human Services.In Montana, Democrats also have a chance of picking up the House seat vacated by Ryan Zinke, a Republican tapped by Trump to lead the Department of the Interior. Republicans are concerned enough they could lose that they’ve  worked to block  a mail-in voting effort that would increase turnout.Around the country, a groundswell of Democratic activism has already begun to  shape state-level special elections , with Democrats making gains in traditionally Republican areas.This article has been updated with election results and details on DNC support for Thompson. Ryan Grim contributed reporting.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/comey-letter-redux_us_59122e01e4b05e1ca202c71c?utm_hp_ref=us-politics
Flashback To That Time The Media Was Certain The Comey Letter Was A 2016 Game-ChangerOn April 22, FiveThirtyEight’s Nate Silver tweeted a link  to a story he’d written  back in November,  remarking for his followers , “The case that the Comey letter ― or the media’s handling of the letter ―cost Clinton the election is painfully obvious.” He ended up  taking some stick for it . So much so that  he was  incensed  enough  to lay out his case in greater detail in a May 3rd piece titled “ The Comey Letter Probably Cost Clinton The Election .” It was basically an essay length explication of a simple premise  he’d previously tweeted : “Not complicated. Clinton was up by a lot. Comey letter hits. Treated as massive story. Suddenly she was up by not-a-lot. She loses narrowly.” Silver provided his receipts.The same day, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton made an appearance at the Women for Women International conference in New York City. At that venue,  Clinton stated  that the “reason why I believe we lost were the intervening events in the last 10 days.” Among them, she cited James Comey’s letter, essentially making a thumbnail version of Nate Silver’s argument. It was now her turn to take some stick for this:Mea Culpa-not so much: Hillary says she was 'on the way to winning' but combination of Comey letter, Russia 'scared off' voters.— Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) May 2, 2017Clinton in one breath: “I take absolute personal responsibility.”Clinton in the next: I would have won if not for Comey and Wikileaks— Matt Viser (@mviser) May 2, 2017I don't care if she takes responsibility. I care if her explanation gibes with reality. It does, sorta, with glaring omissions. https://t.co/KwPjMh7wqZ— Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) May 2, 2017While others seemed surprised that she had dared to say such a thing."I was on my way to winning," Hillary Clinton says. She blames Comey. "If the election was on Oct. 27, I'd be your president."— Phil Elliott (@Philip_Elliott) May 2, 2017Clinton: "I was on the way to winning until a combination of Jim Comey's letter .. and Russian Wikileaks... got people scared off."— John Bresnahan (@BresPolitico) May 2, 2017Clinton expressly says she would have won if not for Comey announcement and Russian Wikileaks— Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) May 2, 2017In a way, this is all perfectly just. I mean, what’s to be done when you lose a winnable election to Donald Trump? There’s a lot to be said about the inadequacy of Clinton’s campaign and the quality of her post-election soul-searching. And, in an election where tens of thousands of votes, specific to geography, might have flipped the election,  it’s a failure with many fathers . Silver makes a compelling case that the letter from FBI Director James Comey, who Trump fired on Tuesday, was definitely one of them.But there’s something that doesn’t add up about Nate Silver, and then Clinton, taking it on the chin from political reporters and pundits for making the observation that the Comey letter may have settled the election. But how can I put this?PUNDITS: This letter is a game-changer.HRC: Indeed, it changed the game.PUNDITS: Shut up and take responsibility. https://t.co/Q8CEjUBPUI— Dave Weigel (@daveweigel) May 3, 2017Oh, yeah, that’s how. Where did Nate Silver and Hillary Clinton come up with this idea? Well, it wasn’t from out of the blue. When that Comey letter was made public in the days before the election, the entire media world erupted as one, making it clear that it could be the event to shift what looked to be a shoo-in win for Clinton into a loss. Quite literally, the foundational basis for Silver and Clinton’s premise comes pure and uncut from the heart of 2016 political media consensus.Let’s go to the tape. The New York Times  described the Comey letter  as “potential turnabout rarely if ever seen at this stage of a presidential race.” The Clinton campaign, previously riding high, had been “rocked,” setting off “a frantic and alarmed scramble.”  Bloomberg called it  “a politically explosive development less than two weeks before the presidential election.”  The Associated Press referred to it  as “a new shock” that could imperil Clinton’s “solid advantage.”  CNN reported  that President Barack Obama had “doubled down” on his support of Clinton “despite” Comey’s letter ― the implication being that continuing to support the Democratic nominee was an unusual and risky thing to do.The fecal lagoon that is cable news treated the matter in the same way.  As Variety’s Sonia Saraiya noted , no lack of solid information “ stopped media organizations, in the full flush of pre-election coverage, to make this some kind of ‘October surprise’ for the Clinton campaign, seizing on it as a turning point in the narrative of election 2016.”Now, it’s possible to quibble with Silver’s underlying premise.  The New York Times’ Nate Cohn did so on May 8 , laying out the case that the discrepancy between when polls were taken and when those surveys were publicly reported upon tends to “exaggerate the effect of Mr. Comey’s letter on the presidential race.” It’s a solid argument.Interesting that reporters feel it's safe to mock Clinton backers who RT @NateSilver538 conclusion on Comey w/o opining on Nate's conclusion— Greg Sargent (@ThePlumLineGS) April 23, 2017Still, no one who took a switch to Silver or Clinton in the days following their comments contended with the theory in the way Cohn did. In fact, they didn’t really provide a factual basis for their case at all, merely saying that Silver couldn’t have been correct and that Clinton needed to take more responsibility for her failed campaign.Still, there is no ambiguity on this front: When the news of Comey’s letter broke, the media told their customers that the Comey letter had the potential to alter the election outcome. Along the way, they faced a storm of reputation-damaging criticism for how they reported this story. With that in mind, you’d think that having Nate Silver and Hillary Clinton affirm that they were correct to have played the Comey letter as a “game-changing” event would bring no small amount of vindication. For some reason, their assertions have been widely greeted as angry intrusions. In Clinton’s case, it’s evidence of her inability to reckon with her failings.But ... why is forcing Clinton to pursue this reckoning suddenly so important?  As MSNBC’s Chris Hayes put it , “I find this obsession with Clinton taking full responsibility for her loss from ostensibly ‘objective’ observers really weird.” I’ll say! It does not make much sense.Really, if Clinton is saying that the Comey letter threw the election, shouldn’t the people who proclaimed it as a game-changer simply say, “We told you so?” Trashing the notion now is basically a tacit admission that all those stories about the Comey letter that were published just ahead of the election should not have been presented in the way that they were. This is the way it works, folks: Either those stories were right and Clinton’s contentions are in line with what was reported, or the stories were garbage and she is just as wrong as everyone who reported it. There is no scenario in which the stories were good and proper, but Clinton can’t cite them in her own defense. This notion returns a 404 error.But it seems to me that this is about much more than merely who gets to claim Comey’s last-minute intervention as a game changer, and it’s related to this responsibility-taking that Clinton is supposed to undergo. What everybody is looking for Clinton to do here is to say that she ran a bad campaign, and that she wasn’t out competing in crucial states (Wisconsin and Michigan) at critical times. Whenever Clinton brings up Comey, her critics in the media are essentially saying that she missed the real story of the election.Which would be all well and good, if we in the media had gotten the story ourselves. But we ― with a few exceptions ― missed it, too.Sure, months on from the events of that last week of the election, everyone in the media has a glib way of summing up What Really Happened and What Was To Blame. I’m no different, I  have my own glib pronouncements on the matter as well . It’s never been easier to sound informed and cocktail party-ready to talk about the presidential election. But let’s be dead-honest about it: We’re all essentially changing the answers we wrote on the exam after we turned it in.In the critical closing days of the election, our front pages weren’t filled with breaking news stories of a neglected Michigan electorate, or Clinton campaign infighting, or any of the more voguish reasons for her failure that we all now claim to see in hindsight. It was wall-to-wall “the Comey letter could be a game-changer.” And just to reinforce how idle-minded that coverage, and those contentions were, let’s remember that almost nobody seriously gave any thought to the idea she might lose, in spite of the panic of those headlines.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/don-benton-draft-board_us_58ef89d7e4b0b9e98489e9a0?section=us_politics
Trump Taps Salesman To Run Military DraftLate Monday night, when many Americans were in bed, President Donald Trump quietly announced his intention to nominate former Washington state senator Don Benton (R) to be director of the Selective Service System, which operates the nation’s military draft.This was when the problems first came to light.They started with a White House statement that lauded Benton’s environmental record, and the three years he spent leading the Environmental Services Department in Clark County, Washington.From the White House :During his tenure [Benton], reduced the cost of removing hazardous waste from the waste stream while doubling citizen participation and tripling the tonnage of hazardous waste removed. Mr. Benton was also responsible for Clark County certifying more Green Schools than in any other county in Washington State.Of the 204 words in the announcement, there wasn’t one mention of the military, the draft, or anything related to what the Selective Service System actually does. Nor were there any references to qualifications or experiences that prepare Benton to manage the millions of records in the draft system, or the agency’s roughly $25 million budget.It was as if the White House had written the statement for a completely different job than the one Benton was being given.Turns out, that’s exactly what happened.The Accidental NomineeBenton had originally been expected to fill a top position at the Environmental Protection Agency,  where he was  part of the Trump “landing team” during the presidential transition.But this was before Benton began to infuriate his boss, the newly confirmed EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt.Benton’s habit of interrupting policy discussions to make bizarre comments became so maddening, according to  The Washington Post,  that senior staff began keeping him out of policy meetings.The ColumbianBenton is the first director in the history of the Selective Service who has not served in any branch of the military.All of which posed a dilemma for the president: On one hand, Benton was an early Trump supporter and the chair of Trump’s Washington state campaign. Given how few Republican legislators were early Trump supporters, there was a real desire to reward each one. On the other hand, the agency where Benton was actually qualified to work, the EPA, did not want to hire him.So Trump’s solution was to give Benton oversight of the military draft.Benton did not respond to detailed questions from The Huffington Post about his background and qualifications, nor did a White House spokeswoman.But following publication of this article, Benton, a sales consultant by trade, was sworn in Thursday afternoon, according to the Selective Service System website.  The agency didn’t announce Benton’s swearing in or respond to questions Thursday evening from The Huffington Post.Benton is the first director in the history of the Selective Service who has never served in the military.“This is a completely inappropriate appointment for that position,” said Richard Painter, the chief ethics lawyer for former Republican President George W. Bush.“We need to convince young men to register for the draft, and to step up if they’re needed to fight. And who is it who’s asking them to do that? Someone who’s never served, and for whom this is a throwaway political patronage job.”Marc Birtel via Getty ImagesBenton was embroiled in a series of controversies as a Washington state senator.As the Trump administration struggles to fill more than 450 senior government positions, its combination of inexperience and political patronage risks creating a federal bureaucracy where patently under-qualified people are given oversight of critical government functions.Benton’s case is a prime example of how this happens.According to the White House, one of the chief reasons why Benton is qualified to run the Selective Service is that he has experience in business. “Benton started his first company when he was 17 years old, and has built and sold several companies since,” according to his White House biography.Yet HuffPost was unable to find any evidence that Benton started a company at 17, or that he has ever sold any companies. That doesn’t mean he didn’t, but if he did, he did it awfully quietly.Moreover, a wide-ranging HuffPost review of Benton’s public records, past interviews, marketing materials, biographies and corporate disclosures reveals that his career has been marked by lawsuits, ethics problems, public feuds and allegations of cronyism.As a member of the Washington state senate for two decades, Benton was known for getting into vicious arguments with his fellow senators, some of which resulted in formal complaints.A brief stint as state GOP chairman in 2000 lasted only eight months, during which Benton, who was already under pressure for allegedly mishandling party funds, fired the committee staff and changed the locks at party headquarters. Benton’s fellow Republicans ultimately voted to replace him.In 2012, he  threatened to file a $1 million libel suit  against a challenger who pointed out that Benton had missed  nearly 300 Senate votes  in his four-year term.In 2014, he accused a fellow senator  of behaving like “a trashy, trampy-mouthed little girl.” The senator also said that Benton followed her around the Senate floor yelling,  “You are weird and … weird! Weird, weird, weird. Just so weird!”At the time, Benton had a job as director of the  Clark County Environmental Services Department. But this position, too, was mired in controversy.Political allies had given Benton the job, despite his having no background in environmental policy. After three tumultuous years, the department was dissolved in May of 2016. Six months later, Benton  sued Clark County for $2 million .Through it all, his marketing firm, The Benton Group, had continued to peddle motivational seminars to sales teams at local TV stations.Luckily for Benton, by the time his job for the county environmental services department was eliminated last year, he’d already found a new patron: Trump.The president first met Benton in the spring of 2016, during Trump’s only campaign stop in deep blue Washington state. The two men reportedly bonded over a meal of McDonald’s. “I had Filet-O-Fish and he had a Big Mac,” Benton  later  said.Soon after, Trump hired Benton to be his campaign director in Washington state, a doomed mission (Trump lost by 15 points).Nonetheless, over the next few months Benton charged the Trump campaign more than $135,000 in fees and reimbursements, according to a review of Federal Election Commission records.  This included rent paid for by the Trump campaign, along with money paid to Benton’s son, his wife, Mary, and his sales training company, The Benton Group.Benton’s company also goes by the name National Advertising Consultants as well as National Consulting Services Inc. Over the years, Benton has frequently used these entities as brokers for his own campaign ads in Washington state. In these cases, Benton pays himself the standard 15 percent commission.Here Is Where It Stops Being FunnyThe last time the draft was used was toward the end of the Vietnam War in 1973, and today the U.S. armed forces are staffed entirely with volunteers. But in an interview with HuffPost, Painter warned against taking the nation’s current all-volunteer army for granted.“If we’re going to abolish the draft, let’s abolish it,” he said. “But if we’re not, we need to assume that it could still be used, and that men’s lives are going to be at stake here.”This is why, for Painter, Benton’s record is particularly worrisome. “We cannot have someone at the top who is not of the utmost integrity,” he said. “Because you effectively get to decide who gets drafted and who doesn’t.”Painter also dismissed the notion that the draft board’s relatively small size made the director’s job a less important one, and thus easier for Trump to give to one of his cronies.“There are plenty of jobs in the Pentagon that would only be activated in the event of a nuclear attack, but those jobs would never be considered less important than others,” Painter said.In addition to concerns about Benton’s ethics and his temperament, experts noted that there are also more basic questions about his ability to run the agency, which employs 400 full and part-time workers with a budget of roughly $25 million.“If you have a job that’s relevant to the military, like this one, it’s important to ask, ‘what kind of experience does the nominee have to do this kind of work?” said Alex Howard, deputy director of the nonprofit Sunlight Foundation. “And what kind of experience does this nominee have managing a system with tens of millions of individual records?”HuffPost put these questions to both Benton and a White House spokeswoman, but neither responded.For Howard, what’s troubling about this nomination isn’t simply Benton. It’s the entire administration’s attitude towards ethics, hiring, and experience.“The lack of certain qualifications, which would have been prohibitive to job seekers in previous administrations, are not prohibitive in this one,” he said.As for the White House’s bizarre announcement about Benton’s experience cleaning up hazardous waste, Howard chalked it up to mismanagement in the White House press office. Still, he said, “these are taxpayer funded positions, so it’s not unreasonable to expect them to be up to the standards of public disclosure. This is nuts and bolts stuff.”Painter was less forgiving. “If this administration doesn’t understand the difference between disposing of hazardous waste and determining the fate of young men’s lives, then they’ve got bigger problems to deal with than this one nominee,” he said.This article has been updated to include Benton’s swearing in.CORRECTION: An earlier version said Benton’s position requires Senate confirmation. It does not.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-farmers-gipsa-rule_us_58efb450e4b0da2ff85f0409?section=us_politics
Trump Administration Hits Small Farmers With More Bad NewsFarmers already concerned with President Donald Trump’s policies on trade and immigration just got another reason to worry.The U.S. Department of Agriculture this week delayed implementation of an Obama administration rule aimed at making it easier for livestock producers to sue the large meat-processing companies they contract with over abusive practices.The USDA Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyard Administration rule, proposed in 2010 and approved by the Obama administration in December, had been set to take effect later this month. The USDA postponed it for at least six months.The government delay was welcomed by industry groups, including the National Chicken Council, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association and the National Pork Producers Council. The groups claim the rule would welcome frivolous, “government-sanctioned” lawsuits targeting corporations, and could raise prices for consumers and put farmers out of business.Colin Woodall, vice president for government affairs at National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, said his organization wants the rule eliminated altogether.“Our request to the Trump administration is that they withdraw this rule and throw it away,” Woodall told HuffPost. “We don’t believe there’s anything that can be done to fix it. We believe it’s bad across the board.”Influential members of Congress agree. Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kansas), the Senate Agriculture Committee chairman, this week called the rule “disastrous.” House Agriculture Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas) similarly criticized the rule last month.The meat industry typically contracts with farmers to raise animals until they are old enough for slaughter. Farmers, particularly those in the highly consolidated poultry industry, have increasingly accused companies like Tyson Foods and Pilgrim’s Pride of deceptive and retaliatory practices.One lawsuit filed earlier this year called the companies a “cartel” and said they have colluded to depress pay for contractors, who are saddled with high debt that threatens their businesses. The industry rejects the allegations.“We’re hoping to bring about a change in this system,” a West Virginia farmer who has been raising chickens for Pilgrim’s Pride for 16 years, told The Associated Press this year. “It has to be done. If not, the American family farmer is going to disappear.”Lawsuits, however, run into the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 ,  which courts have interpreted to require  an extremely high burden of proof. Farmers suing companies must prove practices they’re forced to follow affect not just one farmer, but the entire industry.“It’s like if your house was burned down by an arsonist and you would have to show that all the houses in your neighborhood or city were impacted by that to prove you were damaged by the arson,” Paul Wolfe, senior policy specialist at the National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition, told HuffPost. “That’s very hard to do in any case.”The Obama rule would change that, and is long overdue, according to Barbara Patterson, director of government relations at the National Farmers Union, the nation’s second-largest farm organization.“This rule is such common sense and such a plain-language interpretation of the regulation that it’s hard to believe that they need more time,” Patterson said. “These are pretty basic protections and there has been plenty of time to review this. It should have been put into place eight years ago.”It remains unclear whether the Trump administration will scrap the rule. Trump’s pick for agriculture secretary, Sonny Perdue, hasn’t been confirmed by the Senate. A vote on his nomination has been scheduled for April 24.Supporters said they hope Perdue’s background as governor of Georgia — the biggest U.S. producer of broilers — shapes his thinking on the rule. Georgian Zippy Duvall, president of the powerful American Farm Bureau Federation, recently expressed support for some aspects of the rule.“We hope that he [Perdue] has heard this story from the poultry farmers in his state, and hopefully that experience will help him rethink this decision that was made without him,” Wolfe said.Meanwhile, many farmers in rural communities who backed Trump’s presidency are growing anxious his administration will renege on campaign promises to make America great again.Sally Lee, program director at the Rural Advancement Foundation International-USA, told HuffPost the majority of the farmers she works with voted for Trump and believed his administration would be a boon for their communities.“They felt sure this would be a no-brainer for the Trump administration, and there’s a lot of anxiety about this,” Lee said. “There’s a feeling that this is an action that does not reflect the commitment this administration made to rural America.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-fake-twitter-followers_us_58ece506e4b0df7e20457248?section=us_politics
What Donald Trump Doesn’t Want You To Know About His Twitter FollowersIt turns out a substantial chunk of President Donald Trump’s followers on Twitter hail from shadowy, anonymous sources.A just-published investigation of @RealDonaldTrump’s more than 27 million Twitter followers by Bloomberg Businessweek found that about 28 percent are “eggs.” Literally, that means, for one reason or another, about 7.5 million followers have opted to stick with the default profile illustration, rather than adding their own photo. (Until earlier this month, Twitter’s default illustration was an egg, hence the name.)But in practice, the most suspect account on Twitter is the egg. All too many of these accounts are launched by people who don’t want to be identified or even associated with what they’re saying. “Eggs” are the internet equivalent of someone who doesn’t stand by their work. Twitter dropped the icon because it had become synonymous with trolls and bullying.Bloomberg also found that Trump’s most vociferous supporter ― in terms of tweeting at the president ― is probably a bot (although not technically an egg):Trump’s most prolific respondent, @Trump2016_Fan, has posted more than 18,000 times in the past year, mostly all-caps messages of support for the 45th president. The account appears to be automated and did not respond to a request for an interview.Alexander Taub, co-founder of Social Rank, which provided the data to Bloomberg, said none of this should be surprising. Popular Twitter accounts like Trump’s tend to attract fake and otherwise dubious followers. And bots are, as Bloomberg noted, “a rampant part of life on Twitter.”But for Trump, a man obsessed with crowd size and popularity metrics of all kinds, it does matter ― and for more than just the optics. There’s power in numbers, and the extra millions of supportive eggs and bots can boost his message, even when we don’t know who’s behind them.Sure, people would pay attention to the president’s tweets no matter how many followers he had. But unlike real followers who may dissent from time to time, Twitter eggs (at least many of them) will happily parrot whatever those tweets may be.And Trump’s amplified messages have real-world implications.So real that after his election, Mexican peso traders half-joked that it would be cheaper to buy Twitter outright and shut it down than to continue burning through foreign currency reserves to defend the peso from Trump’s tweets.So real that his baseless tweet accusing former President Barack Obama  of wiretapping Trump Tower has triggered actual investigations.So real that Trump’s repeated, yet unsupported, claims about widespread voter fraud in the 2016 election ignited a flurry of conversation from which even the White House has since distanced itself.The White House seems to understand very well the impact of anonymous voices on the internet. Earlier this week, a Twitter lawsuit revealed that the Trump administration was attempting to force the company to identify the person behind an anonymous account critical of the president.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-has-taken-a-page-straight-from-the-hitler-playbook_us_58eaa6abe4b05413bfe3ce54?section=us_politics
Trump Has Taken A Page Straight From The Hitler Playbook“And you shall not mistreat a stranger, nor shall you oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.” ― Exodus 22:20As a child, I lived in two worlds: the world that I shared with other kids on the streets of Brooklyn, and the world inside my house – a place of tension, strange stories, uncomfortable silences and sudden outbursts; a place where you never knew what would evoke rage and fear or what would trigger a horrific memory or what would turn light, empty talk into the subject of a dire warning. My parents were refugees who had escaped from Poland during the Second World War – and my family kitchen was, in a way, an outpost of the Holocaust.So, although I lived the privileged life of lower middle-class white America in the 60’s, I didn’t know it as a child. Because simultaneously, I lived in a world where friendship was determined by who I believed would hide me when the Nazis came to take us away; and where naiveté was represented by those who wouldn’t take these threats seriously or wouldn’t recognize when it was time to flee.This is why, when reading about what Donald Trump and his appointees are doing to our current immigrant population and to those seeking refuge, I can’t help but identify with the “aliens,” intuitively replacing the words ‘Muslim’ and ‘Syrian refugee’ with ‘Jew’ and ‘Jewish refugee.’ I instinctively transpose the language, for example, of Trump’s new Federal program, Victims of Immigrant Crime Engagement, to Victims of  Jewish  Crime Engagement, just to feel what it would be like to be Trump’s target, and wondering, if it were written that way in newspaper headlines, whether it would change anyone’s consciousness of what is happening.... Sometimes, holding on to hope too long is the greater threat.This is not to say that Trump is preparing concentration camps or the mass extermination of Muslims. But it is to say that that I read Trump’s policy-making as borrowing a page from Hitler’s playbook, galvanizing populist support by mobilizing his followers’ sense of special suffering at the hands of a specific population of alien usurpers. And, by ‘Hitler’s playbook,’ I am not speaking in generalizations or euphemisms; I am referring to Hitler’s  actual  playbook, the 1920  25-point program  of the Nationalist Socialist Party. Like Trump’s playbook, this plan identified aliens as a threat to national unity, responsible for the usurping of jobs and the weakening of “positive Christianity.” Here are excerpts from Hitler’s 25-points:Only members of the nation may be citizens of the State. Only those of German blood… may be members of the nation. Accordingly, no Jew may be a member of the nation… Non-citizens may live in Germany only as guests and must be subject to laws for aliens… We demand that the State shall make it its primary duty to provide a livelihood for its citizens. If it should prove impossible to feed the entire population, foreign nationals (non-citizens) must be deported from the Reich…My friends tell me that, as a child of Holocaust survivors, I am too sensitive to these issues, and I, too, have always been skeptical of the overuse of the  Hitler card  to criticize political hate-speech. But the vitriol of the language of used by the current administration, coupled with the skill with which Trump mobilizes this hatred, has changed this reticence, not only for me, but for  other  historians of the Holocaust.One of the stories that was frequently told in my house was the story of my mother’s father, a tailor who delayed my family’s deportation to Auschwitz from the Lodz ghetto, because he spoke German and made uniforms and other garments for the German elite. One day, a neighbor, who had escaped to the Soviet Union, returned to the ghetto to try and help his family escape and warn the Jews of what was happening. He told terrible stories of mass shootings of Jews at the hands of the Germans. My grandfather, who learned German as a young soldier in the German army during the First World War, refused to believe his stories. He told my mother that he had been treated very well in the military and that the Germans were a civilized people.For my mother, this was not simply a cautionary tale, but simultaneously a story about how her father, even in the ghetto, had not given up hope in others’ humanity. For me, it is a reminder that, sometimes, holding on to hope too long is the greater threat. My grandfather, my grandmother, my aunt and two uncles died in Auschwitz as a direct result of the hatred of the foreigner, stoked by Hitler’s playbook.So when Trump stokes ethnic hatred by painting an immigrant ethnic group as  criminals, rapists, and drug dealers  (in much the same way that Nazi propaganda highlighted  Jewish crimes ); creates a special Office on  Victims of Immigrant Crimes;  and  calls  for a weekly report to “make public a comprehensive list of criminal actions committed by aliens,” it does not feel like a leap to harken back to Hitler’s creation of a special  Office of Racial Policy , and the  order  from Hitler’s Minister of Justice that called on prosecutors to “forward a copy of every [criminal] indictment against a Jew to the ministry’s press division.”I play my language game very seriously because, as a Jew, I know that when one group is targeted, we must see all groups as targeted. As a Jew, I know that when bystanders ignore one outrage and then another and another, they become complicit and less likely to protest as time goes on. As a Jew, I know better than to confuse my current privilege with safety. And as a Jew, I know that when they come for the aliens, the Muslims, the Mexicans, when they come for the [fill in the blank], they come for me.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/an-update-for-trump-voters_us_58ed00d2e4b0ca64d9199c3b?section=us_politics
An Update For Trump VotersHe said he wouldn’t bomb Syria. You bought it. Then he bombed Syria.He said he’d build a wall along the border with Mexico. You bought it. Now his secretary of homeland security says “It’s unlikely that we will build a wall.”He said he’d clean the Washington swamp. You bought it. Then he brought into his administration more billionaires, CEOs, and Wall Street moguls than in any administration in history, to make laws that will enrich their businesses.He said he’d repeal Obamacare and replace it with something “wonderful.” You bought it. Then he didn’t.He said he’d use his business experience to whip the White House into shape. You bought it. Then he created the most chaotic, dysfunctional, back-stabbing White House in modern history, in which no one is in charge.He said he’d release his tax returns, eventually. You bought it. He hasn’t, and says he never will.He said he’d divest himself from his financial empire, to avoid any conflicts of interest. You bought it. He remains heavily involved in his businesses, makes money off of foreign dignitaries staying at his Washington hotel, gets China to give the Trump brand trademark and copyright rights, manipulates the stock market on a daily basis, and has more conflicts of interest than can even be counted.He said Clinton was in the pockets of Goldman Sachs, and would do whatever they said. You bought it. Then he put half a dozen Goldman Sachs executives in positions of power in his administration.He said he’d surround himself with all the best and smartest people. You bought it. Then he put Betsy DeVos, opponent of public education, in charge of education; Jeff Sessions, opponent of the Voting Rights Act, in charge of voting rights; Ben Carson, opponent of the Fair Housing Act, in charge of fair housing; Scott Pruitt, climate change denier, in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency; and Russian quisling Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State.He said he’d faithfully execute the law. You bought it. Then he said his predecessor, Barack Obama, spied on him, without any evidence of Obama ever doing so, in order to divert attention from the FBI’s investigation into collusion between his campaign and Russian operatives to win the election.He said he knew more about strategy and terrorism than the generals did. You bought it. Then he green lighted a disastrous raid in Yemen- even though  his generals said it would be a terrible idea. This raid resulted in the deaths of a Navy SEAL, an 8-year old American girl, and numerous civilians. The actual target of the raid escaped, and no useful intel was gainedHe called Barack Obama “the vacationer-in-Chief” and accused him of playing more rounds of golf than Tiger Woods. He promised to never be the kind of president who took cushy vacations on the taxpayer’s dime, not when there was so much important work to be done. You bought it. He has by now spent more taxpayer money on vacations than Obama did in the first 3 years of his presidency. Not to mention all the money taxpayers are spending protecting his family, including his two sons who travel all over the world on Trump business.He called CNN, the Washington Post and the New York Times “fake news” and said they were his enemy. You bought it. Now he gets his information from Fox News, Breitbart, Gateway Pundit, and InfoWars.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-north-korea-leader_us_58f5a76ee4b0b9e9848df8d1?section=us_politics
Donald Trump May Not Actually Know Who’s Running North KoreaPresident Donald Trump has indicated that two of his predecessors, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, were “outplayed” by “this gentleman” in North Korea.In an interview scheduled to air on “Fox & Friends” on Tuesday morning, Trump told Ainsley Earhardt:“They’ve been talking with this gentleman for a long time. You read Clinton’s book, he said, ‘Oh, we made such a great peace deal,’ and it was a joke.You look at different things over the years with President Obama. Everybody has been outplayed, they’ve all been outplayed by this gentleman and we’ll see what happens. But I just don’t telegraph my moves.”However, “this gentleman” ― presumably current dictator Kim Jong Un ― has only been running North Korea since the 2011 death of his father, Kim Jong Il, who ran the country since 1994. Kim Il Sung ― the current leader’s grandfather ― ruled from the nation’s founding in 1948 until his death in 1994, during the first term of the Clinton presidency.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/doug-lamborn-colorado-springs-town-hall_us_58ee48b4e4b0cb574bb4b603?section=us_politics
In Deep Red Territory, Constituents Grill Congressman In Fiery Town HallCOLORADO SPRINGS ― This city has long been a bastion of conservatism in a solidly purple state: Visitors drive into town on the Ronald Reagan Highway and pass Focus on the Family. So it was a bit of a surprise that liberals so clearly controlled the room at a town hall Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.) hosted on Wednesday.Health care dominated the discussion ― which at times devolved into a loud, chaotic affair ― while environmental issues, foreign policy and President Donald Trump’s tax returns all earned notable mentions.After a brief introduction, wherein Lamborn gave an overview on what he’s been up to in Congress and earned boos for saying “I believe that Obamacare is failing,” the congressman turned the floor over to the audience.“I look forward to your questions and comments,” he said, prompting laughter across the room.One of the first people to speak was Dr. Kristine Hembre, who held up a homemade graphic detailing the country’s growing health care costs and how the middle class bears an unfair share of the burden.“I appreciate a lot of the work you’ve done for veterans, and I’m glad you’re here listening to us,” she told Lamborn, but said the working middle class can’t thrive in an unfair system.“We’re allowing a system that allows extraordinary corporate profits,” she added. “What we’re experiencing is pretty close to extortion.”Later, Hembre told The Huffington Post that she supports Medicare for all. “Everyone else is [already] getting government assistance,” she said.The Huffington PostDr. Kristine Hembre with the graphic she used to explain health care costs to Lamborn.Another woman, who identified herself only as Christine, told Lamborn she has a son with a “complex, significant, rare disability,” and that she’s concerned the health care changes the lawmaker champions “would have a devastating effect on my son.”Christine said she’d previously discussed the issue with the congressman in private and felt dismissed.“You and I have different ideas,” she said, noting that she still hadn’t been expecting how he responded to her.“I was surprised by your indifference,” Christine said. “You didn’t care. You walked away while I was speaking. ... I have to choose between paying my mortgage and paying my son’s medical care.”Lamborn responded by saying it was “simply not true” that he doesn’t care about the issue. He went on to advocate for state-managed health care programs and so-called high-risk pools, prompting someone in the crowd to yell incredulously, “Are you in a high-risk pool?”The congressman’s dismissal of Christine’s characterization of him prompted a response from another woman.“I’m really getting tired of you guys treating us like we don’t have eyes, and ears, and that we can’t think for ourselves,” she said. “For you to stand here and treat her like she didn’t see is a real insult.”The Huffington PostAudience members hold up their hands to ask Lamborn questions during a town hall event on Wednesday.Even some conservative members of the at-capacity crowd came with sharpened questions.One man, who self-identified as a Republican who had voted for Lamborn, pressed the representative on his logic regarding tax cuts for millionaires.“Tax cuts should go to whoever pays taxes,” the congressman replied. “If you’re not paying taxes … a tax cut may not help you.”The man continued to press Lamborn.“Are you wiling to stand on the floor of the House of Representatives and call on the president to release his taxes?” he added, as the crowd cheered.“I’m not happy telling the IRS to go after people,” Lamborn said.A crowd of about 50 people gathered outside the venue as well, expressing displeasure that they weren’t permitted into the full meeting and also that it had been held in such a small space at such an inconvenient time.Betty Field stood outside with a list of names of people who couldn’t make the town hall because it was held in the middle of a workday. She wrote a zip code next to each name to demonstrate that these people are some of Lamborn’s real constituents.She told HuffPost she thought it was absurd to hold a town hall in the second largest city in Colorado in a venue with a maximum capacity of 100 people.The Huffington PostBetty Field poses with her sign outside the venue.Back inside, Sally Vitamvas, who recently moved to the state from Iowa, told HuffPost she attended the town hall because she’s been “really upset watching the deconstruction of parts of government by Trump’s nominees.”“I’m here because I don’t agree with any of Lamborn’s positions, regardless of how benignly they’re stated” on his website, she said.Vitamvas had fashioned a protest sign with Velcro, so she could add any other grievances that crop up in the future. “I left 25 other signs in the car,” she said with a laugh.Even if she alone can’t make much of a difference, she said, “I felt I needed to come.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/republicans-worst-spring-break-ever_us_58efb1d8e4b0bb9638e2328c?section=us_politics
House Republicans Are Having The Worst Spring Break EverWASHINGTON ― When House Republicans returned home this week for a long Easter recess, they found themselves facing rooms packed with loud, furious constituents — and in some cases relied on extra security.It turns out, governing with complete control of the federal government is harder than Republicans may have expected.   After failing to rally enough support to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act last month, the party has struggled to come up with a coherent legislative agenda, and the scandal-ridden Trump administration isn’t helping.Despite the hostile atmosphere, a number of rank-and-file Republicans held town hall meetings in their districts. Health care dominated the conversation. But constituents also wanted answers on immigration, climate change, Russia, and whether lawmakers were going to demand President Donald Trump’s tax returns.Constituents  greeted Rep. Leonard Lance  (R-N.J.) on Wednesday with boos and hisses at his town hall, where gigantic sand trucks were parked outside and officers patrolled with K-9 units on the ground and the roof.The audience members pressured Lance, who ultimately pulled his support of “ Trumpcare ,” to do more to fight his party’s  Obamacare repeal efforts . Republicans have  continued to negotiate  over a repeal and replace plan, but the deep divisions between the right and center wings of the party present a near  insurmountable barrier .“You have the majority, so govern,” attendees shouted at Lance.Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) also faced constituents’ anger over health care. The congressman — who is perhaps best known for  shouting “You lie!”  at then-President Barack Obama during an address to Congress in 2009 — had his own words thrown back at him by rowdy attendees. The chant started after Wilson claimed that Obamacare was obstructing health services, according to  The New York Times .Moderate Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) took  heavy fire  from hundreds of constituents at two town halls for helping House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) craft the GOP’s Obamacare replacement bill, which would have  left an estimated 24 million people  uninsured. One resident in his district accused him of abandoning the “middle way,”  according to The Oregonian .“I feel you’ve abandoned me for the right, the far right,” Gretchen Kimsey, who has lived in The Dalles, Oregon, for 50 years,  told the congressman . “Where are you, Greg Walden?”Health care was also the theme  in Colorado Springs , where Republican Rep. Doug Lamborn fended off questions from a heavy liberal bloc. One woman told Lamborn she feared how changes in health care policy would affect her son, who has a rare disability. “I have to choose between paying my mortgage and paying my son’s medical care,”  she added .In several states, constituents attacked their representatives for failing to hold the Trump administration accountable. In California, one town hall attendee  called Republican Rep. Tom McClintock  “a rubber stamp for Donald Trump.” The audience also  asked  McClintock about investigations into potential ties between Trump campaign aides and Russia.Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.)  took heat from constituents  who wanted answers on Trump’s tax returns and conflicts of interest.Given the strong presence of liberal activists at the events, it’s not surprising that the topic of climate change also came up. In Mesa, Arizona, they booed loudly when Republican Rep. Andy Biggs, a member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, explained why he had doubts about climate change, according to the  Arizona Republic . And while Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.)  acknowledged  that “the climate changes” at his town hall, he also  fended off boos  when he added, “the data set we’re dealing with is very small,” MLive.com reported.Andy CampbellProtesters were confined to a fenced-off area outside Rep. Leonard Lance's town hall meeting in New Jersey.Since Trump’s inauguration, Republicans have faced tougher crowds during their visits home, but the April recess is one of the longest breaks they’ve had this year ― giving voters ample time to pressure them.In some cases, frustrated organizers held town halls for Republican lawmakers who never showed. Hundreds of people  attended an event in Indiana  on Sunday with the hope of luring Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-Ind.) into discussing health care. When she didn’t attend, they resorted to writing questions on index cards to be delivered to her later, according to  WNDU .And a bout 500 people gathered at a banquet hall in Howell, Michigan, on Tuesday to interrogate a cardboard cutout of GOP Rep. Mike Bishop after the congressman held “listening sessions” capped at a few dozen people the day before.Speakers blasted Bishop for trying to repeal Obamacare and encouraged attendees to get involved in efforts like a campaign to put a redistricting amendment on the state ballot in 2018.In Oklahoma, GOP Rep. Markwayne Mullin got into a testy exchange with constituents, telling them they don’t pay his salary, according to a video  posted on Facebook .“You say you pay for me to do this? That’s bullcrap,” he said. “I pay for myself. I paid enough taxes before I got here and continue to through my company to pay my own salary. This is a service.”Mullin later canceled a different town hall 15 minutes before it started, citing “safety concerns.” The abrupt cancellation was a surprise for constituents on both sides of the aisle. Pamela Coonce, president of Cherokee County Republican Women, told the  Tahlequah Daily Press , they were “very disappointed, and none of us are really sure what happened.”Other conservatives simply blamed liberal activists for the disruptions.Rep. Dave Brat (R-Va.), a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, was heckled and booed at a town hall earlier this year, and said he’s not holding any during this recess.In an interview with  USA Today , Brat characterized protesters showing up to Republican lawmakers’ town halls this way: “We were asleep; we thought Hillary was going to get in. We’re ticked off, so we’re going to take it out on you.’”Either way, Brat admitted, every Republican showing up to town halls across the country is “getting just annihilated.”Kate Abbey-Lambertz, Andy Campbell and Ryan Grenoble  contributed reporting.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trumps-five-worst-tax-secrets-revealed_us_58f3ebbde4b04cae050dc897?section=us_politics
Trump’s Five Worst Tax Secrets, RevealedThousands of demonstrators marched on Saturday to demand that Donald Trump release his tax returns. But, barring an unexpected surprise – a W2 form issued by Vladimir Putin, for example, or a payment in kind from Anthony “Fat Tony” Salerno – we already know Trump’s ugliest tax secrets. We will reveal those secrets …… right after this break.Most readers will recognize that reference to Rachel Maddow’s televised release of Trump’s 2005 tax return, where viewers were kept in suspense for a total of 84 minutes before learning that Trump paid an effective federal tax rate of 24 percent that year. That was considered an anticlimax. It even led some observers to speculate that Trump might have leaked the return himself, since many people had assumed that Trump hadn’t paid any federal taxes at all for years.That gets us to Trump’s first terrible tax secret: His tax return was not unusual. Few wealthy individuals pay the official rate, which is currently 39.5 percent, even though the rich have never been richer at any point in this country’s history. A tax return released during Mitt Romney’s presidential run, for example, showed that Romney paid just over 14 percent in 2011 (and that year may have been chosen because others were even more embarrassing.)The tax code has been heavily rewritten by lobbyists for wealthy individuals and corporations. The resulting loopholes make it very rare for any individual or corporation, no matter how prosperous, to pay anything close to the top rate.Given their eagerness to avoid paying the official rate, you might think that rate is excessive. But the top marginal tax rate in this country is much lower than it’s been for most of the last century, despite today’s extreme concentration of wealth at the top:Eskow/OurFuture.org; Source: IRS.govAlthough the official rate is only slightly more than one-third of its highest levels, an entire industry has been formed to help the wealthy avoid paying it. (This story shines a light on one small corner of that industry.)  As James Kwak points out, Warren Buffett – a much more altruistic figure than Trump – takes advantage of today’s tax code on a much larger scale than Trump does.Trump’s second terrible tax secret is one he shares with the entire Republican Party: Instead of being grateful toward the country that has allowed them to accumulate such wealth, Trump and the GOP are willing to let people die for an additional tax cut. They were willing to deprive millions of people of health insurance in order to repeal a 3.8 percent tax on investment income and a tax of less than one percent on high wages. (More detail here.)Trump’s third tax secret? The tax-driven attack on the Affordable Care Act is just the start. His tax plan represents a massive tax giveaway to his billionaire friends and associates, and to corporations that are also paying far less than the official tax rate. Americans for Tax Fairness has summarized the injustice behind Trump’s tax plan, including the fact that it would raise taxes on approximately 9 million families while lowering the top tax rate even more.The Trump/GOP assault on the estate tax is a giveaway to America’s aristocracy. Trump’s even trying to eliminate the biggest tax he pays personally – the alternative minimum tax.The fourth secret is this: Trump and his party don’t believe in progressive taxation at all. As we wrote recently, Trump Budget Director Mick Mulvaney recently suggested that he preferred to let the ultra-wealthy “keep their money” – an extremist and inaccurate framing that is well outside the mainstream of both Republican and Democratic thought over the last century. They especially dislike the idea of taxing billionaires to help people in need.That’s pretty terrible.The fifth and final secret is this: Trump and his billionaire friends are able to pay these low tax rates because rich people have far too much influence over our political system. In fact, as political scientists Martin Gilens and Lawrence Page found in a 2014 study, “economic elites and organized groups representing business interests have substantial independent impacts on U.S. government policy, while average citizens and mass-based interest groups have little or no independent influence.”In other words, the wealthy are de facto oligarchs who almost always get the policies they want.In a response to their critics, Gilens and Page wrote, “The affluent are, not surprisingly, (even) better at blocking policies they dislike than achieving policy change they desire. When a policy is strongly opposed by the affluent … that policy is adopted only 4 percent of the time.”That’s why today’s tax code is so excessively favorable to the wealthy and corporations. It’s very difficult to make changes that they dislike, and tax increases for the wealthy are certainly among the changes they dislike the most.But that’s no reason to quit. Americans have overthrown oligarchies before, most notably at the end of the era Mark Twain described as “the Gilded Age.” (We are, by any reasonable definition, going through a second Gilded Age today.)You don’t need Donald Trump’s tax returns to know that we need a more just tax system, one that calls upon the wealthy and corporations to pay their fair share. What’s more, the fight for fair taxation is inseparable from the fight against oligarchical wealth. That’s more reason to keep fighting.This weekend Donald Trump tweeted that “someone should look into who paid for” the “small” rallies demanding that he release his tax returns. The real question is, who pays for all the tax breaks that are given to people like Donald Trump?The answer is, we all do.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/what-does-russia-want-from-donald-trump_us_58f75cc5e4b0f5cf16c7baf9?section=us_politics
What Does Russia Want From Donald Trump?There are several explanations for why relations between Russia and the United States having been in decline since 2010, from Russia’s increasingly aggressive postures (especially regarding Ukraine) to US support of regime-changing revolutions (especially during the Arab Spring). [Image: The Conversation]The fact is, we are quite far today from the the “reset policy” attempted by the Obama administration in 2009 to bring the two countries closer.All-time lowFor the past few months, US-Russia relations have been a roller coaster ride. Though presidential candidate Donald Trump seemed to be praising Russian President Vladimir Putin during America’s 2016 election campaign, everything changed quickly once he was elected.The US media started to investigate even more potential “Russian connections” to the president-elect, and the FBI launched an investigation, putting Trump on the defensive.Then, following the suspected sarin gas attack on the Syrian village of Khan Sheikhun that killed more than 80 civilians, Trump decided to strike the Assad regime on April 7. This provoked a strong reaction from Moscow.Whichever side you are on, everybody can agree that today, relations between Russia and the US have almost reached an all-time low, recalling – at least in terms of the rhetoric being employed – the worst periods of the Cold War.Exploring tensionsThe irony is that, until recently, both President Trump and President Putin seemed eager to put the relationship back on track.This was apparent during the preparatory phase for US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s visit to Russia on April 11 and 12. On both sides, foreign policy planners were working to resolve numerous issues.Americans were eager to talk about a potential nuclear arms reduction deal that could lead to ending sanctions against Moscow. On the Russian side, there was mention of discussing the many concerns that may not be well-known to Western readers, such as the arrests of Russian citizens by American special services in foreign countries, the rights of Russian foster children in the US and the “artificial difficulties” created for Russian diplomats as they perform their duties.But just before Tillerson’s departure for Moscow, events in Syria changed both the tone and the agenda of the visit. Russian and US officials – including the Russian minister of foreign affairs, Sergey Lavrov, and Rex Tillerson himself, as well as both presidents – exchanged harsh words. President Vladimir Putin even said that the relationship had deteriorated since the Obama administration.Still, the long-awaited visit of Tillerson to Moscow stayed on schedule. The US secretary of state first passed a whole day behind closed doors with Sergey Lavrov before spending another two hours with the President Putin. This was a sign, at least, that both sides were still engaging in talks and that they were, in some way, successful.Results announced by Lavrov and Tillerson included – beyond discussions on Syria, North Korea and Ukraine – the appointment of a special task force to explore existing tensions between the two countries. The two also mentioned the need for reviving business contacts, which could imply lifting some mutual regulations that limit trade between their countries.The day after Tillerson left Moscow, President Trump wrote what looked like a reconciliatory tweet:Things will work out fine between the U.S.A. and Russia. At the right time everyone will come to their senses & there will be lasting peace!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2017So what exactly happened during that visit?Developments to watchThere is every reason to believe that these two did not share with the public all the details of their talks.Putin is famous for his love of secrecy, a habit that comes from his background as a KGB officer. Tillerson, on the other hand, came to politics from business, where nobody ever gives away the details of a just-made bargain.Certainly, something interesting will come out of what was discussed in that long meeting on April 12. As the world watches Trump to see how US policy toward Russia develops, observers should also monitor Russian reactions to American policy worldwide.Already, the White House has made attempts to move American media coverage away from the tensions with Russia that followed the US intervention in Syria. Trump has since ordered military operations that demonstrate that there are other hot spots around the globe, from Afghanistan to North Korea.In fact, it looks today like the North Korean nuclear program is a matter of great priority for the American administration, and it is no coincidence that this issue was brought up at the post-negotiation public press conference in Moscow. If there is more action ahead for North Korea, Washington would need Moscow as an ally – or at least a guarantee of its support.What price Trump will pay for such support remains to be seen.On an alarming domestic note here in Russia, shortly after the US secretary of state left town, law enforcement officials arrested about ten people nationwide on charges of “wrongdoing” during a March 26 anti-corruption rally, Russia’s largest protests since 2012.Some analysts say that the timing of that crackdown – the day after Tillerson’s visit – illustrated Moscow’s clear desire to make some progress during Tillerson’s visit. In what was already perceived as a difficult negotiation, Russia did not want arrests of the political opposition to become yet another subject of contention.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/president-trump-just-cost-americans-saving-for-their-retirement-37-billion_us_58ea602ce4b00de1410421fb?section=us_politics
President Trump Just Cost Americans Saving For Their Retirement $3.7 BillionDonald Trump talked a big game on the campaign trail about standing up to big corporations and putting the interests of hardworking Americans first.But as president, Trump has repeatedly broken his promises – and now, he’s dealing a blow to Americans saving for retirement.In February, he set in motion a process to kill a common-sense rule that would keep financial advisers from siphoning off money from the clients who trust them. Right now, predatory financial advice cheats investors out of about $17 billion every single year. Under the new rule, that money would stay with the customers.This new consumer protection, also known as the “fiduciary rule,” was slated to take effect today, but President Trump has delayed it for 60 days – and may kill the rule altogether.  The rule would require financial advisers to act in their customers’ best interest ― not in their own interest or in the interest of their investment firm. Just like doctors take an oath to act in the best interest of their patient’s and lawyers take an oath to act in the best interests of their clients, financial advisers responsible for protecting the long-term financial health of Americans should be required to follow a high standard of care.Before this rule existed, financial advisers could recommend products whose sales generated bonuses, commissions, or prizes for the advisers, but that could cost their clients significantly more in higher fees.The Trump White House has picked special interest and industry groups over hardworking Americans.But with the new rule, ordinary Americans can trust that their financial adviser is working for them and not recommending investments to line the adviser’s own pockets. And the many financial advisers who already do put their clients’ interests first would no longer have to compete on an uneven playing field with those who are more interested in making a quick buck than they are in making sure their customers can build a secure retirement for themselves and their families.Even though the rule hasn’t been fully implemented yet, it’s already benefitting working families. Because the proposed rule was scheduled to go into effect, some major investment firms have slashed prices on their funds.  Some have taken their worst, highest-fee products off the shelves. Others have eliminated some of the most predatory commission-based sales practices altogether, and some have even created brand new products that are less expensive and better for consumers. In other words, the facts are clear: this rule is good for investors and good for advisers who put their clients first.But despite these clear benefits, the Trump White House has picked special interest and industry groups over hardworking Americans. He has picked giant corporations over retirees.Sixty days may not seem like a big deal, but according to economists at the Economic Policy Institute, just this two-month delay will cost Americans saving for their retirement a collective $3.7 billion dollars. And this is just the beginning. If President Trump succeeds in delaying this rule further or in killing this important consumer protection, the special interests and big corporations he rallied against will score a victory — a $17 billion a year victory — and the American people will be the ones left with the bill.President Trump should make good on his campaign promises to stand up to the financial industry and give up on reversing the new fiduciary rule.Saving for retirement is hard enough. Recent reports suggest that nearly one-third of working Americans have no retirement savings through a pension or 401 (k) . The least Washington can do is stand up to special interests and make sure the money Americans do manage to save isn’t being siphoned off by predatory financial advice. Hardworking Americans shouldn’t have to worry that their advisers don’t have their best interests or their financial security in mind. It’s time for President Trump to get on board with the fiduciary standard — or get out of the way by letting this common-sense rule come into effect. Americans have already waited long enough.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/joe-wilson-you-lie_us_58ecf24de4b0ca64d91970bf?section=us_politics
Congressman Who Shouted ‘You Lie’ At Obama Gets A Taste Of His Own MedicineIn 2009, Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) shouted “You lie!” at then-President Barack Obama during his address on health care to a joint session of Congress. On Monday, Wilson faced angry constituents who chanted his own insult back at him.According to the Charleston Post and Courier, attendees at a question-and-answer session at  Aiken Technical College in Graniteville, South Carolina, gave Wilson a rough reception.  When the lawmaker, who voted against extending the Violence Against Women Act in 2013, claimed he’d worked to prevent violence against women, audience members chanted “You lie!” They did it again when he tried to outline problems with the Affordable Care Act, according to WJBF.The crowd also booed when Wilson said he supported President Donald Trump’s decision to launch missiles against Syria after it used chemical weapons, according to the Post and Courier. Wilson said he would have supported Obama if he’d made the same decision as president.Monday’s exchange was only the latest confrontation between a Republican lawmaker and his or her constituents at home. In February, members of Congress intent on repealing the Affordable Care Act took heat at town halls across the country for their positions. Republicans came close to repealing Obama’s health care law last month, but ultimately pulled the bill because they could not muster enough support.The House  rebuked  Wilson for his outburst in 2009, approving a resolution that said he’d committed a  “breach of decorum and degraded the proceedings of the joint session, to the discredit of the House.”During Trump’s joint session to Congress earlier this year, Wilson said he didn’t shout “You lie!” because he believed what Trump said was true.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/treasury-department-financial-no-fly-list_us_58e6505ae4b06a4cb30fd7b0?section=us_politics
Your Financial Life Could Be Ruined If Your Name Is On This Massive Government ListMuhammed Ali Khan tried to do one of the most boring, responsible things an American taxpayer can do: set up a government-guaranteed retirement savings account. He was rejected because the Treasury Department thought he might be a terrorist.He isn’t. He’s a software consultant from Fullerton, California. But he shares a first name (with a different spelling), last name and middle initial with a financier of a Pakistani terror group. That man, Mohammad Naushad Alam Khan, is on the Treasury Department’s Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN). The 1,026-page catalog lists people and organizations that U.S. citizens and residents are barred from doing business with because of their ties to terror cells, drug cartels or rogue states.The SDN is essentially a financial no-fly list that cuts people off from U.S. banks ― and, as a result, the global financial system. The SDN has more than doubled in length in the last five years.Khan later found out that his credit reports from Experian and TransUnion had also been flagged as a potential match. The trouble this caused him was relatively minor ― after he got over the shock of seeing a terrorism flag on his credit report, he spent a few hours navigating customer service lines with the Treasury Department and the two credit bureaus. He got his retirement account set up and his credit reports cleared after providing some personal information to show that he was not the man who had financially supported the 2008 Mumbai attacks. (Neither TransUnion nor Experian answered The Huffington Post’s questions about how they handle such false positive flags.)Some other people wrongly believed to be on the SDN ― either because they share a name with someone who is or because their name partially matches an alias used by someone on the list (and international criminals often have a lot of aliases) ― are hurt far worse than Khan.They can have their airline ticket purchases rejected or hotel reservations declined. Their bank accounts can be frozen. Loans to buy a home or a car can be declined. Wire transfers can be seized and held for up to a year while the freeze is litigated, which can destroy small businesses, block real estate transactions or delay inheritances.Such delays impose “a tremendous burden,” Peter Djinis, a former anti-money laundering regulator at the Treasury Department, told HuffPost.“It can become a business disadvantage to people whose name just happens to be similar to that of someone actually on the list,” he said. “This is a real problem.”Bank accounts can be frozen. Loans to buy a home or a car can be declined. Wire transfers can be seized and held for up to a year.The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, maintains the SDN list. The catalog was created in 1940, but the department massively increased its efforts to block terrorist financing after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.OFAC is a relatively small office compared to other parts the law enforcement and national security apparatus, although the Treasury Department told HuffPost that OFAC has enough staff and that its size is appropriate relative to U.S. sanctions programs. However, OFAC is especially small relative to its mission of blocking thousands of people from the U.S. financial system.This means day-to-day enforcement is largely left up to the private sector.A Treasury Department spokesman told HuffPost that “OFAC manages individuals and entities on its list in coordination with relevant U.S. government agencies, and has processes in place to ensure that designations are applied appropriately, and to assist and provide due process to anyone who believes they should be removed.”A whole industry has popped up around this, producing what is known as interdiction software ― programs that banks use to see if a customer’s name matches one on the blocked list. This software produces a staggering volume of hits and leads to lots of false positives, like Khan’s.Banks tend to be conservative in their risk management, and cast as wide a net as possible to try to stop anything improper. This is because sanctions are enforced under the legal standard of strict liability, meaning any transaction with anybody on the list is illegal, regardless of intention. Fines are steep, too: either $284,000 per violation, or twice the value of the transaction ― whichever is higher.Companies that peddle interdiction software turn banks’ worries into a selling point. Yet the software’s results often don’t live up to its promises, and financial institutions are struggling to deal with the mountains of data the software produces. The Treasury Department declined to comment on interdiction software.A compliance software executive who asked not to be named because it could harm his business told HuffPost that big banks, credit card companies and payment processors can have between 200 and 500 employees who sift through hits and gather information to try to clear false positives from the OFAC list. When a potential client’s name matches one on the list, the financial institution staffers then have to call OFAC to figure out if the person really is on the SDN or if they are dealing with a false positive.The SDN doesn’t often provide much in the way of specifics ― a name, a few aliases, a nationality and sometimes a date of birth. Financial institutions would like more identifying information about the people on the SDN so they could vet their customers more quickly.But the government is often hamstrung because it has limited personal information about the people on the list, often because the SDN targets are concealing as much about their lives as possible. The Treasury Department told HuffPost it compiles and releases as much identifying information about the people on the list as it can in order to reduce the number of false positives. The department declined to release data on the number of transactions or transfers halted due to false positives.It can become a business disadvantage to people whose name just happens to be similar to that of someone actually on the list.  Peter Djinis, a former anti-money laundering regulator at the Treasury DepartmentFalse hits ― people like Khan ― are “a bigger problem, not a smaller problem,” explained Djinis, the former regulator. And clearing up false hits is a labor-intensive process.The safe, simple option for the financial institution is often to just stop doing business with a customer whose name gets flagged.The complex nature of financial transactions makes this process even more difficult for customers with names that are likely to get wrongly flagged. For instance, a simple money transfer abroad might involve two retail banks and an intermediary bank to facilitate. The transfer can be held up if software run by any of the three banks flags any party involved.Some financial institutions have tried to fix this by buying more software to help sort through the results ― which is great for the software providers, and could help the people the system has wrongly flagged.  “We are going to make so, so much money selling them stuff to fix this,” the software executive said.The application of the SDN list has become “guilt by association,” Shereef Akeel, a civil rights lawyer in Michigan who has worked on the issue, told HuffPost. The Treasury spokesman said the department wasn’t worried that enforcing the list raised any civil rights issue.The vast number of false positives, Akeel said, “actually compromises our national security … because everyone is busy looking at all these other names, they don’t have enough time to really catch the bad guys.”Instead, Akeel said, the burden falls on people like Khan, who have to try to prove that they are not someone else. Khan succeeded in setting up his retirement fund, but there’s no way for him to proactively tell every U.S. financial institution that he isn’t Mohammad Naushad Alam Khan.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/james-mackler-bob-corker_us_58f67436e4b05b9d613e02e2?section=us_politics
Iraq War Vet Is First Democrat To Jump Into Tennessee Senate RaceJames Mackler, an Iraq War veteran and lawyer in Nashville, announced Sunday that he is running for Senate, becoming the first Democrat to try to take the seat of Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) in 2018.“As a soldier, I know the strength of teamwork, cooperation and the benefits of diversity to accomplish a mission,” Mackler told The Huffington Post. “I know that true leadership really comes from a sense of duty, and without some change in this country, I really worry about the future of my family and those of every Tennessean. My wife and I want to raise our daughters in a nation that celebrates the best of America, not in a country that’s as divided as we are now.”Tennessee handily went to Donald Trump in the 2016 election, and just two of its 11 members of Congress are Democrats. If Mackler gets through the primary, he’ll no doubt face an uphill battle to win a Senate seat.Still, state and local Democrats said Tuesday that they’re excited about him, with some saying he may be the strongest Democratic statewide candidate they’ve had since Harold Ford Jr., who served in the House before losing to Corker in a close 2006 Senate race.“I think we’re getting a good candidate that can excite people here,” said Gary Bynum, chair of the Democratic Party in Davidson County, which encompasses Nashville.“You have to have the right candidates at the right time, and that’s what James is,” added Holly McCall, chair of the Williamson County Democratic Party in suburban Nashville.Washington is a mess, our country is divided, our leaders refuse together to solve problems, and I feel called to service.  James MacklerTennessee has been seeing the same surge in local Democratic activism that’s popping up around the country. Davidson County used to see about 10 people, other than the executive committee, at its regular meetings. But nearly 200 people showed up in January, and 180 people filled out forms to start volunteering. Since then, Bynum said, committee meetings have been getting about 100 people on average.McCall said she’s seeing the same thing at her meetings. “Oh my gosh,” she said. “I would say our membership has at least tripled.”McCall is also the recruitment chair for Emerge Tennessee, which trains women to run for office. The group, she said, has had no trouble recruiting women to run since Trump was elected.Mackler said no particular event had inspired his decision to run, and instead repeatedly pointed to political divisions in Washington as a motivating factor.“The fact is, Washington is a mess, our country is divided, our leaders refuse together to solve problems, and I feel called to service,” he said.Mackler also refused to point to specific areas where Corker has fallen short, and he avoided any of the populist or anti-Trump rhetoric that has been firing up the base since the election.“The timing is right for a candidate who understands that our representatives in D.C. are ineffective and is willing to work to change that,” Mackler said. “It’s not about being a Democrat.”Corker has not yet said whether he will run for re-election. “I’ve been busy carrying out my activities here,” he said Monday. “I’ve been focused on that ― I’m going to continue to be focused on that. As far as speculation about what I’m going to do or not do, I’d like to talk about that at the appropriate time.”Candice Dawkins, spokeswoman for the Tennessee Republican Party, said Tuesday that the party was confident that voters would continue to support Republican candidates in 2018. As a cautionary tale, she pointed to the rough time Democrats had with their Senate candidate in 2012.“While Democrats might be excited about potential Senate candidates in 2018, they are still the party whose voters nominated The Washington Post’s worst candidate of 2012,” she said. “The State Democrat party eventually disavowed Mark Clayton and refused to do anything to promote or support him. Sen. Corker won re-election with 65 percent of the total vote in Tennessee. The Tennessee Republican Party is committed to delivering the same kind of result in 2018.”Democrats have 25 seats to defend in the 2018 cycle, compared to just nine for Republicans. Ten of the Democratic seats are in states that Trump won last year.Tennessee is not especially high on the list of potential pick-ups for Democrats right now, with more attention instead going toward Arizona and Nevada. But the fact that there are candidates willing to come out and run in places like Tennessee ― or Texas, where Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D) has announced he’ll challenge Sen. Ted Cruz (R) ― has been encouraging to Democrats.“Democrats in Tennessee are energized and have been since the election. ... There has been a huge response to James Mackler’s announcement as a candidate for Senate, many people already asking where they can volunteer and donate money,” said Mary Mancini, chair of the Tennessee Democratic Party. “Sen. Corker has spent too much time in Washington and has lost touch with the people he serves in Tennessee. ... It’s time for him to retire.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-criminal-justice-reform_us_58f7d29ce4b070a1174fdb6a?section=us_politics
Trump Has Moved To Dismantle Criminal Justice Reform In His First 100 DaysIn his inaugural address, President Donald Trump painted a dark picture of America, a nation where “crime and gangs and drugs” are causing “American carnage” in its cities. The address echoed Trump’s campaign, in which he sold  increases in homicides in a handful of cities  as a nationwide crime wave and presented “more law enforcement, more community engagement and more effective policing” as the solution to a nonexistent problem.A report released Thursday by the Brennan Center for Justice lists a few ways in which Trump’s vision of America, along with policies put forth by his administration, could lead to widespread rollbacks in criminal justice reform.“Trump’s dark portrait of America, however, comes at a time when the national crime rate is near historic lows ― 42 percent below what it was in 1997,” the report reads. “As his first 100 days near an end, what has the president done to address crime and criminal justice? And what can the country expect in the weeks and months ahead?”Here are a few ways, as outlined in the Brennan Center report.Shawn Thew/pool photo/Getty ImagesTrump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions attend a March 29 panel discussion at the White House on opioid and drug abuse.Fear mongering to justify a return to tough-on-crime policiesTrump, who often presented himself as a “law and order” candidate in his campaign, has made repeated  false claims about murder rates even though  crime remained at near-historic lows in 2016. The report says that Trump’s logic in warning of a supposed rise in crime is linked to his immigration stance.“By finally enforcing our immigration laws we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions and billions of dollars and make our communities safer for everyone,” Trump said  in an address to Congress  in February.He has painted calls for police reform as “ anti-law enforcement .” In July, Trump  accused the Black Lives Matter movement of stoking violence against  cops after  five law enforcement officers were killed in Dallas . Trump also supports  reimplementing “stop and frisk ,” a policy that violates the constitutional rights of citizens by allowing unwarranted police searches ― particularly of black and Latinx people. Trump has also claimed that too much scrutiny of police departments has resulted in a “war on police.”“Trump and his new attorney general, Jeff Sessions, insist that they must ‘Make America Safe Again,’ citing outside forces that have brought in drugs and violence ―  justifying a travel ban, a border wall with Mexico and mass deportations,” the report reads. “The administration has also issued several executive orders focused on combatting this phantom crime wave, without offering solutions to solve the real and serious localized problems of violence in Chicago and Baltimore.”Trump has already signed three executive orders expanding the powers of federal law enforcement agencies ― including allowing the Department of Homeland Security to utilize “all necessary and lawful action to break the back of the criminal cartels that have spread across our nation.”ILLUSTRATION: HUFFPOST PHOTOS: GETTY IMAGESThe Justice Department Has Moved To Stop Policing The PoliceSessions is  cynical of widespread police reform and civil rights investigations into departments . He has spoken out against consent decrees and sees “ bad apples ” as the reason for police misconduct rather than systemic failures. To Sessions, the government shouldn’t be “dictating to local police how to do their jobs” or dishing out “scarce federal resources” to sue cities.Under Sessions, the Justice Department will “pull back” on investigations that he believes  diminish the effectiveness  of police departments. The Brennan Center report also notes that local police departments could evolve into a way for the government to enforce its immigration policies in sanctuary cities.“Historically, the Justice Department has played a key role overseeing and regulating civil rights violations committed by local police departments. … Sessions outright rejects this role for the federal government, labeling it as part of a broader ‘war on police,’” the report says. “He has directed a review of all existing consent decrees and attempted to stall pending agreements. This trend will likely continue, potentially emboldening police departments to become more aggressive.”Bloomberg via Getty ImagesJeff Sessions listens as President Donald Trump speaks before Sessions is sworn in as U.S. attorney general on Feb. 9.Sessions Could Restart A War On Drugs And Bring Back ’90s Crime PoliciesSessions isn’t a fan of criminal justice reform. Like Trump, he  may part with the bulk of conservatives and require federal prosecutors to seek the most extreme charge  in every case they try, which could lead to the revival of mandatory minimum laws for relatively low-level, nonviolent offenses.  This ideology, in many ways, contradicts a number of conservatives who have joined progressives in the stance that criminal justice reform is needed because too many Americans are incarcerated.“Since taking office, Sessions has given several speeches calling for a return to harsher federal charging policies, and issued memoranda directing U.S. Attorneys to stand by for such major policy shifts,” the report says. “Sessions could revoke key [Attorney General Eric] Holder-era initiatives, directing federal prosecutors to pursue maximum penalties in drug cases even in states where marijuana is legal. Notably, the administration has shown interest in expanding treatment options for opioid addiction, which disproportionately affects white, rural communities, while increased marijuana prosecutions would more affect communities of color.”Rod Rosenstein,  Trump’s choice to be deputy attorney general , is another fan of mandatory minimum sentences (even though the report says he has claimed they can be excessive in some cases).Eric Dreiband, who  could be nominated to run the Justice Department’s civil rights division , opposes “ ban the box ” reform, named for the criminal history check box on job applications, which would delay criminal background checks and focus hiring on a person’s qualifications.Richard Baum, the acting drug czar, defended the “war on drugs” in 2001.Steven Cook, a prosecutor who opposes sentencing reform, was appointed by Sessions to run the new Task Force on Crime Reduction and Public Safety, which would guide the country’s approach to violent crime. Cook and Sessions are  planning to prosecute a higher number of drug and gun cases while pursuing mandatory minimums , according to The Washington Post, signaling a desire to reinstitute the war on drugs and “tough on crime” policies.Read the entire report below.If you're always angry about politics, sign up for bruh., a sporadic newsletter by Julia Craven.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/new-analysis-finds-clinton-not-trump-narrowly-won-the-catholic-vote-in-2016_us_58e574bce4b06a4cb30f0aaf?section=us_politics
New Analysis Finds Clinton, Not Trump, Narrowly Won The Catholic Vote In 2016Early exit polls from the 2016 presidential election suggested U.S. Catholics favored then-candidate Donald Trump over his opponent, Hillary Clinton. But new data suggest these analyses may have missed the mark.Using data released by the American National Election Studies last week, political scientist Mark Gray discovered that Catholic voters were split 48 percent to 45 percent in favor of Clinton.Gray, who heads Georgetown University’s Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate, also found that factors such as age, geography and race significantly impacted how Catholics voted in the election.2016 ANES data, out today, indicates Catholics voted for Clinton 48% & Trump 45%. Final exit polls had estimated Trump 50% & Clinton 46%. pic.twitter.com/GqV8dcJjiI— CARA (@caracatholic) March 31, 2017Exit polls aren’t a perfect gauge of which people turn out to vote or who they cast their ballots for, especially when it comes to demographic subgroups. Gray told America Magazine he considered the ANES data more reliable.Gray’s analysis, released in a series of charts on Twitter over the last week, disrupts the narrative that a united “Christian America” elected President Donald Trump.Exit polls released by CNN, The New York Times, and Pew Research Center shortly after the election told roughly the same story: A whopping 81 percent of white evangelicals, 61 percent of Mormons, and nearly 60 percent of Protestants backed Trump. Catholics, according to these polls, favored the Republican candidate by roughly 50-52 percent, compared to about 45 percent who voted for Clinton.The new analysis suggests Catholics were more evenly split between the candidates.“Basically, we assume the Catholic vote was a toss-up,” Gray told The Huffington Post on Thursday. “Too close to call.”But among sub-groups of Catholic voters, the preferences are more clearly defined. Older Catholics tended to favor Trump, while millennials backed Clinton 59 percent to 28 percent, according to the ANES data.Digging through new American National Election Study (ANES). Very distinct differences in Catholic voting in 2016 by generation: pic.twitter.com/GyissTLUZl— CARA (@caracatholic) April 1, 2017White Catholics voted for Trump, while a greater majority of Hispanic Catholics and those of other races and ethnicities voted for Clinton. Trump also fared better among Northeastern and Midwestern Catholics, and Clinton stole the Catholic vote in the West. In the South, Catholics were fairly split.Big differences in choices at the ballot box in 2016 among Catholics by race and ethnicity: pic.twitter.com/qP6QSdKRwe— CARA (@caracatholic) April 5, 2017Regional Divides: Catholics in the Northeast and Midwest voted for Trump. It was a toss up in the South and Clinton had a huge lead in West. pic.twitter.com/EnbiX42lB3— CARA (@caracatholic) April 3, 2017Though the AMES data suggests Catholics favored Clinton by a small margin, Jesuit priest and author Father James Martin argued that a key takeaway from the analysis should be that Catholics are largely politically divided.“It shows, once again, that there’s no such thing as a ‘Catholic vote.’ Catholics vote largely along party lines, as most other Americans do,” Martin said in an email to HuffPost. “So while they pay attention to things like abortion, refugees and migrants and the rights of LGBT people, they are, in the end, more likely to vote ‘Democrat’ or ‘Republican’ than ‘Catholic.’”Gray agreed, noting that even within the Catholic hierarchy messages were mixed leading up to the election. Pope Francis appeared to weigh in on the U.S. presidential race in a February 2016 interview, saying Trump’s plan to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border was “not Christian.”Meanwhile, some churches said it would be a “sin” to vote for the pro-abortion rights Clinton, while a handful of bishops encouraged their flocks to skip voting for either candidate.“If you’re a Democrat and a Catholic, you may strongly emphasize Pope Francis’ statements about climate change or the preferential option for the poor,” Gray told America. “If you are a Republican and a Catholic, life issues may be the most important to you.”“At the ballot box, partisanship trumps [Catholics’] faith when they make their choice,” he added. “It should be a difficult choice for any Catholic to vote because no candidate, no party really stands for what the church stands for.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/are-we-witnessing-a-turning-point-in-us-healthcare_us_58f78139e4b0c892a4fb7451?section=us_politics
Are We Witnessing A Turning Point In U.S. Health Care?A key debate among Republicans on the American Health Care Act — the now-pulled Affordable Care Act replacement bill — was whether to cut the law’s “essential health benefits” for individual health insurance consumers.The AHCA, put forth by House Speaker Paul Ryan and supported by the Trump administration, would have repealed the law known as Obamacare, but kept much of the law intact — including EHBs.This was unacceptable to more conservative Republicans, who wanted to see the law completely dismantled. Particularly, a group of legislators known as the “Freedom Caucus” were opposed to the law for not going far enough in its reversal of Obamacare.But on the other side of the GOP, moderate Republicans were already concerned the AHCA would lead to coverage losses, and were opposed to the additional cuts wanted by the Freedom Caucus. Ultimately, this was the debate that forced Paul Ryan to conclude that no consensus could be reached in time for a vote.The series of events is arguably a turning point in U.S. healthcare. Despite almost unanimous Republican opposition to the ACA since its inception, the stalled repeal indicates some legislators are too nervous about the consequences of repeal to move forward.Essentially, the ACA may have created a new “healthcare floor” of what consumers, and their representatives, are willing to accept in their coverage.Pre-ACA, the floor was much lower. Individual insurance plans weren’t federally required to cover any of the benefits now mandated by the ACA. But what are these essential health benefits, and why has the tide risen to protect them?Essential health benefits are ten services that must be covered by any insurance plan selling individual coverage through the ACA. Employer plans are not required to cover these services, but most already do. The ten services are:1. Ambulatory services: This is care received outside of the hospital, like doctor’s offices or surgery centers.2. Emergency services: This refers to care in life-threatening situations, including ambulance transportation.3. Hospitalization: This is all care received as a hospital patient.4. Maternity and newborn care: Includes prenatal care, labor, and care for newborn babies.5. Mental health services and addiction treatment: Includes counseling and treatment.6. Prescription drugs: At least one drug in each treatment category must be covered.7. Rehabilitative services: This is care after an injury or disability.8. Laboratory services: These are tests to determine a diagnosis, including screenings and blood work.9. Preventive services: This includes physicals, immunizations, “well-woman visits,” and screenings.10. Pediatric services: Care provided to children including yearly visits, vaccines and immunizations.For many consumers—particularly young adults or those who never tried to get insurance before the ACA—this seems like a no-brainer. “Of course health plans should cover hospital visits and prescriptions,” these consumers might think. “Why else would anyone buy them?”But before the ACA, insurers were not required to cover all of these services, and many did not. In Colorado, for example, no individual health plans covered maternity coverage before the ACA. Consumers could add “maternity riders” to their plans, but they were only available to women under 34 with no history of pregnancy complications. Similar policies surrounded coverage for services like mental health or substance abuse treatment in the individual market.The advantages of the EHB requirements are obvious. People have more coverage for more services. But it’s not a total win—there are consequences. Specifically, it has made insurance more expensive.As you might expect, requiring insurers to cover a full suite of benefits raises their costs. On top of that, the ACA prohibits insurers from denying coverage to people with pre-existing conditions or capping their benefits, which further limits insurers’ ability to control costs. With sicker-than-expected individual enrollees, many carriers have said their costs are becoming unsustainable.The results are higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs for consumers, which most enrollees really don’t like, especially if they don’t think they will benefit from the EHB services.Some of these consumers want to go back to pre-ACA plans. People who are generally healthy and don’t expect to use very many healthcare services often prefer to pay less for skinnier insurance plans.Rolling back the ACA’s regulations so insurers can sell these plans is one of the goals of the Freedom Caucus. But they don’t have unified support for this, because so many consumers do need or want coverage for the essential health benefits.And now that these consumers have this coverage, they have become protective of it. One could argue that the U.S. will never go back to the days of cheaper and less comprehensive health insurance, because consumers’ attitudes have changed.Conservatives continue to work on amending their repeal bill to adjust these regulations, and they may eventually find a way to sell consumers on their plan by focusing on the likely result of lower costs.But so far, they have been unable to do so. The longer they go without rolling them back, the harder it may become. For that reason, we may currently be witnessing the cementing of EHBs in American health policy.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/tapper-ivanka-refugee-tweets_us_58e81d97e4b058f0a02f6748?section=us_politics
CNN’s Jake Tapper Flings Refugee Contradiction At Ivanka Trump’s Pro-Strike TweetAfter the military strikes on Syria, Ivanka Trump tweeted her support of her dad’s response to “crimes against humanity.” She got a lightning-fast rejoinder from CNN’s Jake Tapper, who asked if she didn’t see any “disconnect” between that sentiment and President Donald Trump’s attempts to ban Syrian refugees.“The times we are living in call for difficult decisions. Proud of my father for refusing to accept these horrendous crimes against humanity,” Ivanka tweeted Friday morning, the day after the president ordered the nation’s first direct military assault on the government of President Bashar Assad after a chemical weapon attack on Syrian civilians.Tapper snapped back on Twitter: “How do you feel about his proposed ban on Syrian refugees from entering the US? Do you see any disconnect there at all?”The times we are living in call for difficult decisions - Proud of my father for refusing to accept these horrendous crimes against humanity https://t.co/yV0oJuC9dE— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) April 7, 2017@IvankaTrump How do you feel about his proposed ban on Syrian refugees from entering the US? Do you see any disconnect there at all? Thanks— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 7, 2017The first daughter didn’t respond, but an Ivanka Trump Twitter defender and onetime Reuters contributor Cate Long blasted Tapper for crossing the line from “news reporter” to “internet troll.”He responded: “It’s a sincere question to a senior WH adviser on Twitter. I’d love to ask her in an interview of course. ... Not sure why your concern is more for one of the most powerful people in the world than for the most vulnerable, but have a great weekend.”@jaketapper @IvankaTrump hey Mr. Tapper. There is a clear dividing line between news reporter and internet troll. And you just crossed.— Cate Long (@cate_long) April 7, 2017@cate_long @IvankaTrump No, it's a sincere question to a senior WH adviser on Twitter. I'd love to ask her in an interview of course.— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 7, 2017@cate_long @IvankaTrump Not sure why your concern is more for one of the most powerful people in the world than for the most vulnerable but have a great weekend.— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 7, 2017Donald Trump said Thursday he was shocked at the chemical weapon attack on “helpless men and women, children” and “beautiful babies” in Syria. But his administration is currently battling barriers in court as it tries to carry out his executive order barring Syrian refugees from entering the U.S. During his presidential campaign, he called such a ban “a matter of terrorism.” He also vowed then to eject the 12,000 Syrian refugees currently living in the U.S.: “If I win, they’re going back.”There’s no change on the refugee issue, despite the U.S. attack on Syria. Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, Trump’s national security adviser, said the refugee issue “wasn’t discussed as any part of the deliberations” for the strikes, according to a White House pool report.Trump has shown “callous disregard for Syrians attempting to flee for their lives,” Margaret Huang, the executive director of Amnesty International USA, said in a statement Friday  . She called for the administration to immediately revoke its position on refugees.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/rob-quist-economic-populism_us_58f279d8e4b0b9e9848c7359?section=us_politics
Montana Democrat Embraces Economic Populism In Congressional CampaignColorful Democratic candidate Rob Quist is emphasizing a message of economic populism in a Montana special congressional election, as emboldened Democrats look to win seats in places Republicans have long held.“Did you know in Congress there are nearly 300 millionaires? No wonder their so-called health reform was just another tax break for the rich,” said Quist, a popular folk singer in the state, in an advertisement his campaign released this week. “And no wonder they want to sell our public lands to private developers and hand our Social Security to Wall Street. This should not be the millionaires club, this is the House of Representatives.”The populist focus comes as Democrats are seeing a wave of Democratic activism in response to the early days of President Donald Trump’s administration.The party is already having some success flipping seats in local races at the state level. And on Tuesday, Democrats saw encouraging results in a special congressional election in Kansas, where a Democrat lost but ran a stunningly close race that Republicans had to pour tremendous resources into at the last minute. James Thompson, the Democrat in the race, also embraced progressive support from a group that Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) backed in the race’s final days.The next test for Democrats will come on Tuesday in a Georgia special election, where Democrat Jon Ossoff is running for another long-held GOP seat.Quist announced this week that he had raised $1.3 million in the first quarter of 2017 and received over 22,000 contributions.Republicans plan to pour resources into the race and spend more than $1 million in it, The Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday. Donald Trump, Jr. intends to campaign on behalf of Greg Gianforte, the Republican candidate in the race, according to the Journal.The Montana election will be held on May 25.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/ice-may-deport-more-people-with-us-ties-if-border-crossings-keep-dropping_us_58ee9ad7e4b0b9e984891ad3?section=us_politics
ICE May Deport More People With U.S. Ties If Border Crossings Keep DroppingSAN ANTONIO, Texas ― The plummeting number of unauthorized crossings from Mexico may allow the Trump administration to focus more energy on deporting undocumented immigrants already living here, former immigration officials say.Since President Donald Trump took office, the number of  unauthorized crossings have dropped  to a 45-year low. If those numbers stay down, it could mean that Immigration and Customs Enforcement will see a sizable chunk of its workload evaporate, even as the White House demands the agency hire another 10,000 agents.With less work at the border and a mandate to enforce immigration law more aggressively, ICE’s former deputy director for congressional relations, Kate Christensen Mills, says agents will increasingly target people with stronger ties to the United States.“If you’re going to have a decrease of people coming across the border, you’re going to have an increase in interior enforcement,” Mills said, speaking at a panel at the Border Security Expo Tuesday. “You’re also going to see an increase in detention.... Some are going to have ties to the community. So processing them is going to take a little bit longer.”Bureaucratic constraints will continue to undermine Trump’s efforts to boost deportations, Mills added. The lack of judges in immigration courts has contributed to a years-long backlog. The immigrant detention system has run over capacity in recent months. And the White House has proposed to gut the State Department’s budget by around  30 percent , despite the fact that ICE heavily relies on the department to secure the travel documents deportees need to be removed from the country.But if illegal border crossings keep dropping, Mills expects ICE to detain and deport more people with long ties to the United States and without criminal records ― exacerbating a trend the Trump administration has established within weeks of his inauguration.“There’s only so many criminal aliens,” Mills said. “So ICE is going to go after people living illegally in the United States. And some of them will not be criminal aliens.”ICE distinguishes between two types of deportees: those caught while trying to cross the border illegally and those arrested in the interior of the country. For decades, those caught at the border made up the  majority of removals , though not everyone was formally deported by ICE.Since 2014, however, deportations from the border zone have become increasingly complicated because most of the people crossing come from Central America rather than Mexico. In many cases, the Border Patrol itself can return Mexican nationals arrested for jumping the border within 48 hours and without getting ICE involved.The Border Patrol can’t fly people to countries beyond Mexico, however. And people from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras are often fleeing violence and routinely ask for asylum or other humanitarian exemptions from deportation. That kicks off a lengthy legal process that puts the case in ICE’s hands.“If these declining numbers are sustained and the era of large migration from Central America has in fact ended, yes ― I expect you’ll see a big uptick in interior removals,” John Sandweg, who headed ICE for part of Obama’s second term, said.Doris Meissner, a former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, expected a less drastic effect, pointing out that in order for ICE to take full advantage of the change, the agency would have to relocate people previously tasked with working at the border.“Unless you start detailing all kinds of people into the interior area, it’s not an entirely transferrable workforce,” Meissner, who now serves as a fellow with the non-partisan Migration Policy Institute, told HuffPost. “But it probably is true that it allows for more resources to be directed toward people in the interior of the country.”Many immigration analysts already expected a pronounced jump in the level of interior deportations. Within weeks of taking office, Trump eliminated Obama-era deportation policies that had required ICE to focus its attention on recent border crossers, people with criminal records and those who’d been deported before.Under a January executive order, Trump issued a new set of deportation priorities that include virtually the entire undocumented population of 11 million – though in practice, people who are arrested by local law enforcement or who’ve had prior orders of deportation are the most likely to be detained by ICE.In his first year in office, Obama deported nearly 238,000 people from the interior of the country. Thanks largely to those deportation priorities, first implemented in 2011, that number dwindled every year of his presidency. Last year ended with 65,332 interior deportations ― about a quarter of ICE’s total deportations, with the rest coming from the border zone.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/there-is-a-trump-doctrine-and-mostly-about-enriching-himself_us_58f4e14ee4b0da2ff862107c?section=us_politics
There Is A Trump Doctrine And It’s Mostly About Enriching HimselfWhat’s the “Trump Doctrine” of foreign policy? At first glance, foreign policy under Trump seems inconsistent, arbitrary, and devoid of principle.A few weeks ago, even before the airstrike on Syria, Trump communications director Mike Dubke told Trump’s assembled aides that international affairs presented a messaging challenge because the Trump administration lacks a coherent foreign policy. “There is no Trump doctrine,” Dubke declared.I think Dubke is being grossly unfair. Of course there’s a Trump Doctrine. You just have to know where to look for it.The Trump Doctrine began to emerge when Trump issued his travel bans (both the first and second) on predominantly Muslim countries.But he notably excluded predominately Muslim countries where Trump has business interests.So under what might be called the First Principle of the Trump Doctrine, people living in a predominantly Muslim country have a chance of entering the United States only if their country contains an edifice with Trump’s name on it.The Second Principle follows logically from the first. Countries that are potential markets for Trump’s business ― nominally run by his two sons, but still filling his pockets ― may be eligible for special favors if they allow Trump to make money there.For example, Trump’s business currently has 157 trademark applications pending in 36 nations, according to the New York Times.Registered trademarks are giant financial assets for a business like Trump’s, which in recent years has made big money by selling his name rather than by building or making anything.Soon after he was sworn into office ― but only after Trump backed off of his brief flirtation with a “two China” policy ― the Chinese government granted Trump preliminary approval of 38 trademarks of his name.“It was a gift,” said Peter J. Riebling, a trademark lawyer in Washington, of China’s decision. “Getting the exclusive right to use that brand in China against everyone else in the world? It’s like waving a magic wand.”One potential obstacle for the Second Principle is the Constitution’s “emoluments” clause, which bars U.S. government officials from receiving gifts from foreign powers.No matter. Apparently the Trump Doctrine, well, trumps the Constitution.A group called Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), joined by several prominent law professors, is suing Trump over this.But the United States ― through the U.S. Department of Justice ― argues in a legal brief, expected to be filed this month, that the framers of the Constitution meant only to rule out gifts that compensate presidents or other office holders for services they might do for a foreign power, not for public policies they advance that benefit a foreign power.Interpretations of the U.S. Constitution by the Department of Justice aren’t like the musings of any random defense attorney. They carry special weight. They represent the views and interests of the United States.Which makes this one official U.S. government policy ― and thereby, confirms it as the Second Principle of the Trump Doctrine.The Third Principle comes down hard on countries that kill their own children with poison gas. They will be bombed.You may recall Trump had long been opposed to bombing Syria. But, as he recently explained, Syrian dictator Basha al-Assad’s “attack on children… had a big impact on me,“ adding that “my attitude toward Syria and Assad has changed very much.” The bombing ensued.This doesn’t mean endangered children will be given refuge in the United States, though. Recall the First Principle: Nobody gains entrance to the United States from a predominantly Muslim nations unless their country contains a Trump hotel, spa, or golf course.Which brings us to the Fourth Principle.Not long after the Syrian bombing, Trump authorized the Pentagon to drop a 22,000-pound GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast Bomb (MOAB) on people described as “Islamic State forces” in eastern Afghanistan near the Pakistani border.It was the first time the bomb ― nicknamed the “mother of all bombs,” and one of the largest air-dropped munitions in the U.S. military’s inventory ― had ever been used in a combat.Trump’s rationale? The group was allegedly connected to ISIS.So under the Fourth Principle of the Trump Doctrine, the United States reserves the right to drop a mother of a bomb on any group seemingly connected with ISIS.This applies even if the group is not fighting to gain or hold territory claimed by the Islamic State. The group could be thousands of miles away from the Islamic State, anywhere around the world.Could a mother of a bomb be dropped on such a group if it’s located in a country containing a Trump hotel, or considering a Trump trademark application?Frankly, I don’t know. That pesky detail hasn’t been worked out yet.But this one uncertainty doesn’t undermine the overall consistency or clarity of the Trump Doctrine of foreign policy. It’s four major principles are firmly rooted either in making money for Trump, or stopping bad people from doing bad things.If Mike Dubke had a clearer grasp of Donald Trump’s worldview, he’d surely see this ― as would everyone else.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/gao-trump-transition_us_58ece162e4b0df7e20456632?section=us_politics
Government Watchdog Is Investigating The Trump TransitionThe U.S. Government Accountability Office is reviewing Donald Trump’s presidential transition, focusing on funding, ethics and communications with foreign governments.Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) requested the review in November, citing concerns with “reports of ‘disarray’ within a ‘chaotic’ transition.”In an April 5 letter to Warren and Cummings, the GAO confirmed that it would conduct the review. The report will focus on four questions, including how taxpayer and private funds were spent during the election. GAO officials will also look at what information the Office of Government Ethics made available to Trump’s transition team and how Trump’s team used those services. OGE Director Walter Shaub Jr.  expressed concern  during the transition that Trump’s Cabinet picks weren’t fully vetted, and he reportedly warned Trump officials after his office lost contact with the transition team shortly after the November election.Trump has extensive potential conflicts of interest, but because he has declined to release his tax returns, the extent of those conflicts remains unknown. He declined to divest entirely from his business interests following the election, instead simply saying that it would be run by his children, who would have no contact with him over business-related decisions.The GAO will also review how transition officials communicated with foreign governments and how their actions compare with the Obama transition in 2009 and the Bush transition in 2001. Michael Flynn, formerly Trump’s national security adviser, was fired in February after lying about communications with Russia’s ambassador to the United States. Attorney General Jeff Sessions also met with the Russian diplomat and was forced to recuse himself from any probe of Trump’s ties to Russia after The Washington Post reported that he failed to disclose the meeting during his Senate confirmation hearing.The GAO said in its letter that it would provide a draft of its report for review in June.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-tax-push-raises-questions-about-scope-of-his-reform_us_58fea39be4b00fa7de16fc72?ncid=inblnkushpmg00000009
Trump Tax Push Raises Questions About Scope Of His ‘Reform’President Donald Trump’s zeal to unveil a tax plan before his 100th day in office is raising questions about just how thorough his “tax reform” plans will be, amid signals that his focus for now is on slashing tax rates.Trump has directed aides to move quickly on a plan to cut the corporate income tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent, a Trump administration official said on Monday.With his 100th day nearing on April 29, Trump has been ordering studies and signing executive orders. But he has yet to introduce a major bill to the Republican-controlled Congress on any topic or win passage of someone else’s that he supports.He has promised a “big tax reform and tax reduction” announcement on Wednesday. Some analysts said this may consist of a proposal to cut the corporate rate to 15 percent, cap the individual tax rate at 33 percent, repeal the estate and alternative minimum taxes and cut taxes for the middle class.In earlier days, Trump vowed to oversee the biggest “tax reform” since President Ronald Reagan’s in 1986, a legislative feat that has since defied every president.Wall Street analysts say Trump may instead offer a package of rate reductions, like those backed by Reagan in 1981 and President George W. Bush in 2001, which left the tax system intact.If that is the case, it “is not tax reform. It is a tax cut,” Chris Krueger, analyst at financial firm Cowen & Co, said in a research note.On Wednesday, Krueger said, “We will get some vague benchmarks about rate levels... with likely no detail on how to finance those reductions except for the assurance that the growth projections will take care of it.”The announcement could also show whether Trump is turning away from a Republican plan backed by House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan that would pay for tax cuts with an import tax and by killing a business interest deduction.Ryan and other Republicans will get a preview of Trump’s plan on Tuesday at a Capitol Hill meeting with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Gary Cohn, director of Trump’s National Economic Council, aides said.Trump’s announcement, however, could be a disappointment for investors seeking clarity.“I don’t know that it will shed a great deal of light beyond what the administration has already said,” noted Peter Cohn, analyst at financial firm Height Securities.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-mar-a-lago-state-department_us_58fe4e4fe4b06b9cb9193b03?section=us_politics
The Federal Government Officially Promoted Mar-A-LagoWASHINGTON ― The U.S. State Department has officially promoted President Donald Trump’s personal real estate.The department’s ShareAmerica website posted an article  on April 4 celebrating Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate with glitzy photos and flowery descriptions of the “ornate Jazz Age house,” which was “designed with Old-World Spanish, Venetian and Portuguese influences.” The piece was featured the next day on the  websites  and  social media  accounts  of various American  embassies  abroad, all of which went largely overlooked until Monday, when the posts sparked a furor online.Norm Eisen, chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, lambasted the State Department on Twitter, arguing that it was illegal for the government to essentially advertise the president’s personal property.violations of 5 CFR 2635.702 have gone viral thruout our embassies. trump gutting foreign aid to convert embassies 2 trump promo outlets! https://t.co/pgY0UjpJY0— Norm Eisen (@NormEisen) April 24, 2017The State Department did not respond to phone calls or emails seeking comment.Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) mocked the Mar-a-Lago promotion for its “kleptocratic glory” on Twitter:.@StateDept Here’s the full post in its kleptocratic glory: https://t.co/w6fd0One2E— Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) April 24, 2017Former government ethics officials and independent anti-corruption experts have roundly criticized President Trump’s failure to divest his substantial business assets or place them in a blind trust. Trump aide Kellyanne Conway was sidelined weeks ago after promoting his older daughter’s clothing line on national television.The State Department’s article recounts the efforts of heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post to establish Mar-a-Lago as a winter retreat for American presidents. Post built the estate in the 1920s and willed it to the U.S. government in 1973 as a retreat for presidents and visiting foreign dignitaries. The government returned Mar-a-Lago to the Post Foundation in 1981 because it was just too expensive to keep up. The State Department refers to Post’s thwarted last wish as “a dream deferred” ― a bizarre evocation of Langston Hughes’ 1951 civil rights poem “Harlem,” which begins, “What happens to a dream deferred?”UPDATE: 7:28 p.m. ― The original post on the State Department’s ShareAmerica site was removed later on Monday  . The page now carries a different message: “The intention of the article was to inform the public about where the President has been hosting world leaders. We regret any misperception and have removed the post.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/bill-clinton-donald-trump-grasshopper_us_58fe29f1e4b06b9cb918eb4e?section=us_politics
Bill Clinton Trolls Donald Trump With A Really Cheesy Dad JokeThis is pretty fly.It’s been more than a month since President Donald Trump accused his predecessor, Barak Obama, of wiretapping Trump Tower during the election.But when it comes to fathers and their dad jokes, timeliness is rarely a factor. Making the point, Bill Clinton — proud pop of Chelsea Clinton — tweeted this picture and punny caption over the weekend:BREAKING: We just learned that the @ClintonCenter has been bugged. pic.twitter.com/4Or6lrnRPN— Bill Clinton (@billclinton) April 23, 2017Zing!The knee-slapper seemed to tickle a lot of people on Twitter:@billclinton @ClintonCenter pic.twitter.com/Q8j4dKhiCO— Josh Sánchez (@jnsanchez) April 23, 2017Some even made some insect puns of their own:@billclinton @ClintonCenter preying for you Mr. President.— Gene Park (@GenePark) April 23, 2017The giant grasshopper with Clinton in the photo is part of a temporary exhibit at the Clinton Presidential Center in Arkansas called “Xtreme Bugs,” which opened Saturday, also Earth Day. The exhibit is a “study and celebration of some of Earth’s most fascinating inhabitants,” according to a press release.It also offers an excellent opportunity to bee a total Trump troll.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-adopts-washington-denial-armenian-genocide_us_58fe3a9ee4b018a9ce5d86c1?section=us_politics
Trump Joins Grand Bipartisan Tradition Of Denying Armenian GenocideWASHINGTON ―President Donald Trump on Monday adopted a controversial but traditional Washington line by avoiding the term “genocide” in describing the Turkish government’s pogrom against its Armenian citizens in 1915.In a statement issued on the day historians say the genocide began, Trump noted Armenians’ mass suffering and the deaths of more than 1 million people , but he did not say there was a “genocide,” a step advocates say is essential for the sake of victims, honesty about the past and America’s credibility as a moral actor.“Sadly, he ended his first 100 days in office on the most shameful of notes, and has cemented his position as the ultimate Washington politician,” Steve Oshana, executive director of the Middle East Christian advocacy group A Demand for Action, wrote on Facebook after seeing Trump’s statement.For years, concerns about angering Turkey, a strategically important partner for the U.S., and strong lobbying efforts by the Turks have stymied attempts to change official U.S. government policy to acknowledge the genocide. Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan did use the term in office, but George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama shied away from it, even fighting congressional efforts to endorse it.Trump crafted an image of himself as a gutsy outsider on the campaign trail and in doing so had raised expectations that he might challenge the taboo, Oshana said. But his statement reflected the power that Washington orthodoxy ― the logic of the “swamp” that he pledged to drain ― retains in the nation’s capital.It’s hard to publicly admit to toeing the Washington line while in office. But former top officials have more leeway to expose hypocrisy and moral failures. Hours after Trump issued his statement, Samantha Power, a top aide to Obama, tweeted out a public apology for the former administration’s failure to acknowledge the genocide ― rare for a member of a team that has loudly defended its approach to foreign policy and human rights in the face of serious criticism.I am very sorry that, during our time in office, we in the Obama administration did not recognize the #Armenian Genocide— Samantha Power (@SamanthaJPower) April 24, 2017As a senator, Obama had long supported congressional attempts to recognize the genocide. He promised he would do so in the Oval Office.Trump was less forthcoming about how he would handle the issue. But a complicating factor has been his apparent fascination with strongman-type rulers, including Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Trump has cheered Erdogan as he has consolidated his power. Earlier this month, Trump was one of the first world leaders to congratulate Erdogan after he won a contentious and arguably unfair referendum election earlier this month that increased his authority. (Despite the chumminess, his careful comments on the genocide didn’t entirely satisfy the Turks ― Erdogan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned it Monday evening, and the Turkish efforts to trivialize the genocide in the U.S. and elsewhere continue.)The use of the genocide label matters for a range of reasons, including because it helps the ongoing court battles of families trying to win back stolen property and could deter further human rights abuses by Turkey’s increasingly authoritarian government, Oshana told HuffPost. His organization was at the center of the fight to make Congress and the Obama administration acknowledge the so-called Islamic State’s assault on minority groups, notably Christians and Yazidis, as a genocide.Still, Trump avoided breaking the mould. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, noted the continuity in his Monday press briefing.“The statement that was put out is consistent with the statements that have been put out for at least several of the past administrations,” Spicer said. “So I think if you look  back to the language that President Obama, President Bush, etc., have used, the language that the president used is consistent with all of that.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-tax-push-raises-questions-about-scope-of-his-reform_us_58fea39be4b00fa7de16fc72?section=us_politics
Trump Tax Push Raises Questions About Scope Of His ‘Reform’President Donald Trump’s zeal to unveil a tax plan before his 100th day in office is raising questions about just how thorough his “tax reform” plans will be, amid signals that his focus for now is on slashing tax rates.Trump has directed aides to move quickly on a plan to cut the corporate income tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent, a Trump administration official said on Monday.With his 100th day nearing on April 29, Trump has been ordering studies and signing executive orders. But he has yet to introduce a major bill to the Republican-controlled Congress on any topic or win passage of someone else’s that he supports.He has promised a “big tax reform and tax reduction” announcement on Wednesday. Some analysts said this may consist of a proposal to cut the corporate rate to 15 percent, cap the individual tax rate at 33 percent, repeal the estate and alternative minimum taxes and cut taxes for the middle class.In earlier days, Trump vowed to oversee the biggest “tax reform” since President Ronald Reagan’s in 1986, a legislative feat that has since defied every president.Wall Street analysts say Trump may instead offer a package of rate reductions, like those backed by Reagan in 1981 and President George W. Bush in 2001, which left the tax system intact.If that is the case, it “is not tax reform. It is a tax cut,” Chris Krueger, analyst at financial firm Cowen & Co, said in a research note.On Wednesday, Krueger said, “We will get some vague benchmarks about rate levels... with likely no detail on how to finance those reductions except for the assurance that the growth projections will take care of it.”The announcement could also show whether Trump is turning away from a Republican plan backed by House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan that would pay for tax cuts with an import tax and by killing a business interest deduction.Ryan and other Republicans will get a preview of Trump’s plan on Tuesday at a Capitol Hill meeting with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Gary Cohn, director of Trump’s National Economic Council, aides said.Trump’s announcement, however, could be a disappointment for investors seeking clarity.“I don’t know that it will shed a great deal of light beyond what the administration has already said,” noted Peter Cohn, analyst at financial firm Height Securities.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/canada-softwood-lumber-duties_us_58fe91c1e4b06b9cb9198470?section=us_politics
Trump Admin Plans To Impose 20 Percent Duties On Canadian Softwood LumberWASHINGTON, April 24 (Reuters) - U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Monday his agency will impose new anti-subsidy duties averaging 20 percent on Canadian softwood lumber imports, a move that escalates a long-running trade dispute between the two countries.Speaking to Reuters by phone a day ahead of the expected announcement, Ross said that the duties would affect $5 billion worth of softwood lumber imports from Canada.“It’s about 31.5 percent of the total U.S. market, so it’s a pretty big deal in terms of the Canadian relationship,” he said.The trade case was filed at Commerce against Canadian lumber producers by their U.S. competitors, who argued that Canadian timber grown on public lands receives an effective subsidy from the government that is unavailable to the U.S. firms, who cut timber grown largely on private land.A Commerce Department fact sheet on the pending announcement seen by Reuters shows that West Fraser Mills will pay the highest duties at 24.12 percent, followed by Canfor Corp at 20.26 percent.Resolute FP Canada Ltd will pay a 12.82 percent duty, while Tolko Marketing and Sales and Tolko Industries will pay a 19.50 percent duty and J.D. Irving Ltd, will pay 3.02 percent.All other Canadian producers face a 19.88 percent duty, according to the document.The preliminary determination directs U.S. Customs and Border Protection to require cash deposits for the duties on all new imports as well as softwood products imported over the past 90 days.To remain in effect, however, the duties need to be finalized by Commerce and then confirmed by the U.S. International Trade Commission after an investigation that includes testimony from both sides.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/ann-coulter-berkeley-college-republicans-file-lawsuit-against-uc-berkeley_us_58fe3c29e4b00fa7de168d45?section=us_politics
Ann Coulter, Berkeley College Republicans File Lawsuit Against UC BerkeleyConservative pundit Ann Coulter, in collaboration with the Berkeley College Republicans, has filed a lawsuit against the University of California, Berkeley.The lawsuit, filed Monday, comes after a heated back-and-forth debate between Coulter and UC Berkeley. After threats of violence were aimed at Coulter, the school canceled her speaking engagement there that was planned for Thursday.Jason LaVeris/Getty ImagesAnn Coulter as filed a lawsuit against the University of California, Berkeley.University spokesman Dan Mogulof told HuffPost the Thursday event was canceled after police had learned that groups responsible for violent demonstrations earlier this year planned to target Coulter’s speech.The school then relented on its decision to cancel and offered Coulter a new date for her event ― May 2 ― when they could provide more adequate security. Coulter refused to reschedule, suggesting that not as many students would be around for that date since it falls during a reading period before final exams. She also told the university that if they did not let her speak on the original date, she’d litigate.As per her tweets about the lawsuit, Coulter is asking for an “appropriate and safe” venue for her speech, which she indicates will happen on the original date this Thursday. She also includes a link to the full lawsuit filing:Our lawsuit against Berkeley was just filed. Demands appropriate & safe venue for my speech THIS THURSDAY + damages https://t.co/I9fvYdDwBU— Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) April 24, 2017Our lawsuit agst Berkeley filed moments ago. @thomasfullerNYT at failing NYT won't understand it. Read it yourself https://t.co/I9fvYdDwBU— Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) April 24, 2017The crux of the lawsuit is that Coulter and the Berkeley College Republicans feel their First Amendment rights were infringed upon:This case arises from efforts by one of California’s leading public universities, UC Berkeley – once known as the “birthplace of the Free Speech Movement” – to restrict and stifle the speech of conservative students whose voices fall beyond the campus political orthodoxy. Though UC Berkeley promises its students an environment that promotes free debate and the free exchange of ideas, it had breached this promise through the repressive actions of University administrators and campus police, who have systematically and intentionally suppressed constitutionally-protected expression by Plaintiffs (and the many UC Berkeley students whose political viewpoints align with Plaintiffs), simply because that expression may anger or offend students, UC Berkeley administrators, and/or community members who do not share Plaintiffs’ viewpoints.The lawsuit uses the cancellation of Milo Yiannopoulos’ speaking engagement on the campus earlier this year as a reference point for the sort of speech the university is limiting. That event was canceled because of violent protests.You can read the entire filing here.As per Monday afternoon, UC Berkeley issued the following statement about the lawsuit:The University of California welcomes speakers of all political viewpoints and is committed to providing a forum to enable Ann Coulter to speak on the Berkeley campus. The allegation contained in the complaint filed by Young America’s Foundation that Ms. Coulter is being prohibited from speaking because of her conservative views is untrue. As the complaint itself notes, Young America’s Foundation has sponsored many other speaking events at UC Berkeley in past years, including that of conservative political commentator and author Ben Shapiro, and the organization’s efforts have led many notable conservatives to share their viewpoints with students and the public on campus. UC Berkeley has been working to accommodate a mutually agreeable time for Ms. Coulter’s visit – which has not yet been scheduled  – and remains committed to doing so. The campus seeks to ensure that all members of the Berkeley and larger community – including Ms. Coulter herself – remain safe during such an event.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-hundred-days_us_58fe1925e4b018a9ce5d3896?section=us_politics
It’s Pretty Hard To Make A List Of Trump’s ‘100 Days’ Accomplishments, ApparentlyThis Saturday, President Donald Trump will mark his 100th day in office, which will generate a swell of “first 100 days” media content, after which we will all move on from day-counting until we’re two years away from the midterm election, at which point we’ll all become insufferable again. Sorry.Over at Axios, Mike Allen has taken his best shot at summing up Trump’s first 100 days. In the name of balance, he’s gone with a “hits and misses” format, offering five examples of each. But I don’t know, guys. You tell me if these Trump accomplishments are, like, a little bit of a stretch, or if we’re at Reed Richards levels here. Per Allen:Winning confirmation of Justice Gorsuch: Trump did it fast, with little drama and huge consequence. The win tipped the Court, invigorated conservatives, and bought him credibility with the establishment. It’s the president’s one achievement so far that will outlast him, regardless of what else unfolds.OK, well, this one was unquestionably an accomplishment for Trump. From the point of view of Republicans, Gorsuch is a genuinely appropriate pick who will advance their judicial interests. Had any other of the GOP’s nominees ascended to the White House, you could imagine Gorsuch being on their shortlists as well. Insofar as there were any histrionics, they all happened in the Senate ― beginning, of course, with the actions of GOP senators in keeping this Supreme Court seat vacant in the first place.Pro-business executive orders and regulatory changes: Nothing lifts a presidency (or increases the chance of reelection) more than a rising economy. Trump’s early pro-business rhetoric and assault on regulations has boosted many industries. And the market “Trump bump” has given business a new spring in its step.That’s... one way of looking at it, I guess? Coal companies can pollute more freely now, that’s for sure. Additionally, Trump delayed the implementation of a fiduciary rule proposed during the Obama administration, and that’ll definitely put a “spring in the step” of the Wall Street financial advisers who scam retirees out of some $17 billion each year. I might be more inclined to cynically count these as “hits” if they matched Trump’s populist campaign rhetoric. Alas, they do not.Encouraging CEOs to think more systematically about American jobs: Businesses talk openly about trying to “bait” a positive tweet from Trump (or insulate themselves from assault) by announcing factory openings or job expansions. These overtures aren’t always all that they seem: Some were already in the pipeline, or may never come to fruition. But he has forced huge companies to reckon with the issue.This is where the need to put five things on the “hits” side of ledger becomes a problem. I think what Allen is getting at here is that Trump’s ability to roil markets and stir public sentiment on Twitter has created a little uncertainty for firms. We’ve certainly seen some temporary stock shocks since he’s become president. Hedge fund quants have worked on creating algorithms to profit from this tendency. But it’s possible to overstate Trump’s effects on markets, especially as individual Twitter utterances fade into the white noise.At any rate, if CEOs are “thinking more systematically” about jobs, that just seems to consist of them telling Trump he can take credit for things that have nothing to do with him. Meanwhile, layoffs in certain firms continue apace, including in industries that Trump has specifically promised to help.Operation Normal I: Installing experienced national-security and economic teams, obviating the fears of some Republicans that a Trump Cabinet would have a bit of a clown-car aura.This Cabinet still seems pretty clown-car, to be honest. To the extent that “experienced” people have found their way into the administration, it’s often been the result of Trump’s first choices crashing and burning. Meanwhile, the process of building up a more Beltway-native administration around Trump has resulted in internal divisions becoming inflamed.What’s more, the real story of Trump’s first 100 days has been all the positions left unfilled (primarily deputy staff at Cabinet agencies) and the massive number of tasks foisted upon Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, whose principal qualification seems to be that he can never be fired.On a recent episode of “Charlie Rose,” The Atlantic’s David Frum drilled down on both of these points: “The bureaucratic process in the White House depends on deputies’ meetings, where the next level down prepares the issues for the principals. You can’t have deputies meetings if you don’t have deputies, and... a third of the way through the president’s first year, no deputies.”Frum summed up Kushner like so: “If Jared Kushner were truly a public-spirited individual... he would say to the president that ‘You need an A-team here, and what I’d like to do is run a staffing process whereby instead of giving the China portfolio to me and the Middle East portfolio to me, and the reinventing government portfolio to me, we bring in people who actually knew about these issues before November of last year.’””They were too disorganized, too arrogant, and too unprepared to run an Easter Egg roll,” said Frum, “and now they want us to follow them into a military conflict in Northeast Asia.”Operation Normal II: Post-Flynn, establishing a national-security decision-making process that has produced well-executed policies that have been regarded as sensible by mainstream Republicans. This includes the Syria strike, the embrace of NATO and the China state visit.The entire “post-Flynn” concept is kind of what I was referring to above, in which Trump’s initial staffing plan ― the one he actually seemed to prefer ― fell apart. (”Flynn,” of course, is Michael Flynn, Trump’s first choice for national security adviser, last seen unsuccessfully lobbying the Senate Intelligence Committee for immunity in exchange for his testimony regarding the Trump campaign’s possible ties to Russia.) But these are some pretty meager post-Flynn accomplishments, even so. We’re going to continue to support NATO? A Chinese dignitary had a meeting without everyone in the administration vomiting down their shirtfronts? Meanwhile, it’s hard to see what the Syrian strike achieved, other than briefly warming the loins of some cable news presenters.These last two entries under “hits,” of course, are presented as parts I and II of something called “Operation Normal” ― which seems to imply that Trump has managed to move on from the unsettling extremities of his campaign and settle into a more conventional mode. But as you get into Allen’s enumerated “misses,” you’ll eventually come to this:Little personal growth in office: His loose style, resistance to structure and amorphous views (and loyalties) leave White House aides insecure, and create internal inefficiencies and blind spots. This chaos contributed to the health-care debacle, provoking weeks of public butt-covering and finger-pointing. To this day, many aides tell us the West Wing reality is even worse than is publicly portrayed.So Trump has simultaneously gotten more “normal,” but hasn’t achieved any “personal growth?” How does this compute? It seems to me that much of what constitutes Trump’s “hits” ― the occasional conventionality, the retreat from some remote and unpopular positions, the wholesale flip-flops on others ― really should be credited to things like slow-moving institutions, advice from Trump’s second-choice advisers (and Kushner, presumably), and a mobilized resistance that’s pushed back hard on his efforts to enact a travel ban and replace the Affordable Care Act, keeping those items from making the “100 Days” cut.When you factor in his understaffed administration, the fact that many of the policies he has enacted don’t square with his campaign rhetoric, and the way CEOs have adapted to new realities by cutting Trump in on their public relations strategies, it would seem the story of Trump’s first 100 days is that he’s not so much an influential president as he is a president who can be influenced. Really, the ones who ought to take a victory lap are the people who’ve managed to hem Trump in thus far.Trump did get Gorsuch on the Supreme Court, though! And he only had to sacrifice the judicial filibuster to do it. He’d better hope the GOP keeps the Senate, or we might be re-evaluating even that accomplishment somewhere down the line.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/epa-clean-air-public-comment_us_58fe2c1be4b00fa7de1665cb?section=us_politics
EPA Quietly Asked The Public Which Clean Air Rules To Cut. Industry Answered Loudest.A utility lobbyist called on regulators to do less work monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. An oil and gas lobbyist praised the Trump administration’s retreat from safeguards and urged federal rulemakers to limit regulations on carbon emissions and smog. A lobbyist for wood-product manufacturers complained about the “ever-tightening” public health standards for ozone pollution and asked regulators to change the permitting process.Those were just some of the requests made by industry advocates during a conference call Monday, when the Environmental Protection Agency held the first of several sessions to ask the public which rules should be eliminated under President Donald Trump’s executive order instructing agencies to slash regulations. The three-hour call, held by the Office of Air and Radiation, focused on clean air and ozone pollution rules.In March, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt  announced plans  to hold the public hearings, but environmental advocates say the agency scheduled the events with little notice, in some cases just days in advance.“New meetings appear on a  website  that the EPA has set up to coordinate the process, so unless you check it every day, it is easy to miss when a new hearing is announced,” Andrew Wetzler, deputy chief program officer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, wrote in a  blog post  ahead of Monday’s call. “All of this is made worse by the fact that EPA staff are offering only limited slots for in-person comments. In fact, some of the meetings aren’t public at all.”Ron Sach-Pool via Getty ImagesPresident Donald Trump, left, is greeted by Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, right, prior to signing an Energy Independence Executive Order on March 28, 2017. The order reverses the Obama-era climate change policies.The EPA’s Office of Water, Wetzler noted, is offering an in-person meeting with local water agencies, but only offering a “virtual listening session” over the phone to the public.“And the deadline for the public to comment on rolling back all these crucial safeguards?” he added. “It ends in a mere three weeks.”The EPA has already taken drastic steps to gut a host of rules, claiming they hold back businesses and stymie job growth. In March, the agency scrapped a rule requiring oil and gas drillers to report methane emissions, a greenhouse gas up to 86 times more heat-trapping than carbon dioxide. A week later, the White House shredded an Obama-era EPA assessment of fuel efficiency standards, a move celebrated by automakers that claimed complying with the regulation cost too much. By the end of the month, Trump signed an executive order instructing the EPA to rewrite the Clean Power Plan, the Obama administration’s embattled rule to reduce emissions from electrical utilities.“Regulations ought to make things regular,” Pruitt said in his first speech as EPA chief in February. “Regulations exist to give certainty to those they regulate. Those we regulate ought to know what’s expected of them so they can place and allocate resources to comply.”Based on Monday’s call, the regulated heard him loud and clear. Lobbyists and business proponents vastly outnumbered ordinary citizens on Monday’s teleconference. Environmental advocates, however, made a considerable turnout to urge the agency not to press ahead with its rollbacks.A handful of ordinary citizens also spoke during the call, with each given a strictly enforced three-minute limit. One man, who said he lives in Austin, Texas, said that when he testified on behalf of the Clean Power Plan during Barack Obama’s presidency, people filled two conference rooms at the EPA’s Atlanta office for a full day.I’m horrified, absolutely horrified, at the degenerate level of contribution we’ve seen from representatives from industry.  A man who spoke during Monday's public comment call“Out of that process came a very robust and very responsible regulation and now we’re being asked to roll it back,” he said. “These are people’s lives. These are my children’s lives. This is the future of the planet. We cannot move backward on that. We need to have a strong, robust process, at least as robust as what we had in the past.”Another man slammed the agency for limiting the opportunities for public comment to a mere phone call on a weekday morning.“This process today has been extremely enlightening in how the new administration is completely curtailing and cutting out public comment by reducing this to a three-hour conference call on Monday, that no working person would be able to attend reasonably without being an activist in the space or a representative of a major corporate interest,” the man said, adding that his background is in economics. “This is not really fair and should be outright illegal.”“I’m horrified, absolutely horrified, at the degenerate level of contribution we’ve seen from representatives from industry who have seemingly no concern for the massive, sweeping deleterious effects that are about to be suffered nationwide, should this repeal happen the way it is about to happen,” he added.The operator promptly moved on to the next caller.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/texas-republicans-try-to-do-to-lgbtq-rights-what-they-did-to-abortion-access_us_58fe67a4e4b018a9ce5dd464?section=us_politics
Texas Republicans Try To Do To LGBTQ Rights What They Did To Abortion AccessWASHINGTON ― Texas lawmakers have a history of  finding ways to get around landmark U.S. Supreme Court decisions.  They tested  Roe v. Wade  by  dramatically restricting abortion rights  in the state, shuttering abortion clinics and forcing women to drive  hundreds of miles  to reach an abortion provider.Now that the Supreme Court has  ruled in favor  of marriage equality, Texas Republicans are trying a similar strategy to chip away at LGBTQ rights. This legislative session, they’ve introduced  at least two dozen bills  that advocates say target LGBTQ people for discrimination. And what happens in Texas doesn’t always stay in Texas.“Often, the far-right strategies in Texas are exported to other states,” Kathy Miller, president of the Texas Freedom Network, a progressive activist group, told reporters on Monday. “We’re kind of a testing ground or a petri dish for extremist political strategies.”That’s a grim forecast for progressives who have watched conservatives rewrite abortion laws across the United States, effectively  winning what activists call the “war on women. ” The  Supreme Court struck down abortion restrictions in Texas  last year —but that didn’t stop state lawmakers from introducing  dozens of new anti-abortion bills  this session.The wave of anti-LGBTQ legislation also covers a lot of ground. One  bill  would permit wedding photographers, caterers and DJs to deny services to same-sex couples. Another would  allow student clubs  at public universities to deny membership to LGBTQ people. Other bills  protect faith-based groups that  use taxpayer dollars and discriminate against LGBTQ couples when providing foster care services.The 85th legislative session has “chosen to declare war on transgender Texans,” Lauryn Farris, Alamo regional coordinator for the Transgender Education Network of Texas, told reporters on Monday. “As a result, all of us feel threatened by the very people we elected to protected us.”Texas Republicans  claim  their bills are about protecting religious freedom. And in the same way some anti-abortion bills are packaged as a way to  protect women’s health , Texas conservatives have cited women’s safety as a reason to  push legislation  banning transgender people from using some bathrooms that correspond with their gender identity.“If laws ... allow men to go into a bathroom because of the way they feel, we will not be able to stop sexual predators from taking advantage of that law, like sexual predators take advantage of the internet,” Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick (R) has  argued . (CNN  surveyed 20 law enforcement agencies  in states that had anti-discrimination policies covering gender identity; none of those that replied reported subsequent bathroom assaults.)The anti-transgender bill that Patrick calls the  “women’s privacy act”  — and which followed in the footsteps of the “bathroom bill” that sparked political backlash in  North Carolina  — has been a cause of concern for businesses. The NFL  warned earlier this year  that such a proposal could influence whether it decides to host future sporting events in Texas. And a study  commissioned by Visit San Antonio and the San Antonio Area Tourism Council  found that bathroom bills could cost the state $3.3 billion in annual tourism and more than 35,600 full-time jobs.Another Texas  bill  introduced in March — which House Republicans  hope will be more palatable  to corporations — would ban local anti-discrimination protections, including voiding those that already exist. That language could apply to protections for veterans or pregnant women,  The Dallas Morning News pointed out.A revised version laid out before the House Committee on State Affairs last week, which was obtained by HuffPost, specifically bans “political subdivisions,” including public school districts, from enforcing an anti-discrimination ordinance that regulates access to restrooms, showers or changing facilities.Texas Rep. Ron Simmons (R), who authored the bill, could not immediately be reached to comment on LGBTQ advocates’ concerns. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has  called Simmons’ bill  “a thoughtful proposal to make sure our children maintain privacy.”But opponents of the bill include people like Rachel Gonzales,  an activist and mother of a 7-year-old transgender girl . “My daughter has been surrounded by love and acceptance in both her home and school lives,” she told reporters on Monday. But she fears the bill will “remove my daughter’s school’s ability to keep her safe.”She added, “These extremists are continuing to go after transgender people for political gain. We are tired of it and it is wrong.”Cathryn Oakley, senior legislative counsel at the Human Rights Campaign, which advocates for LGBTQ rights, added that “none of these bills are actually about bathrooms, they’re all about prejudice.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-administration-nepotism_us_58fa746de4b06b9cb916f736?section=us_politics
Trump’s White House Family Affair Looks A Lot Like The Most Corrupt Nations In The WorldWASHINGTON ― For decades, the United States has worked with other countries to eliminate nepotism. There’s a good reason for that: Nepotism breeds corruption.“You’ve seen it in countries all over the world where they’ve appointed family members, whether it’s their son, daughter, in-laws — it provides for tremendous opportunities for corruption,” said Shruti Shah, an international anti-corruption expert at Coalition for Integrity, a good-government nonprofit. “People who want to curry favor find their way to provide favors to family members as a way to get closer to the person in power.”But President Donald Trump, who has entrusted more power to his family members than any recent president, puts that agenda at risk. “I like nepotism,” Trump told Larry King in 2006, the year he replaced his “Apprentice” costar, Trump company executive Carolyn Kepcher, with his daughter Ivanka Trump.Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, hold broad portfolios at the White House that include everything from diplomacy with China, the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, women’s issues, cybersecurity and reinventing government.They determine who else has power in the Trump administration. Trump sidelined Steve Bannon, a close adviser, after he butted up against his daughter and adviser-in-law, and he elevated former Goldman Sachs employees Gary Cohn and Dina Powell based in part on their friendly relationships with Ivanka and her husband. And the couple act as presidential emissaries, with Kushner traveling to Iraq at the suggestion of the Pentagon and Ivanka heading to Germany.Ivanka and Kushner — the two Trump advisers least likely to be fired — now rule the White House. And, although Ivanka and Kushner are not being paid, they maintain ownership stakes in their own businesses. Ivanka owns her own personal brand, which produces shoes, clothing, jewelry and accessories, and has a stake in her father’s businesses, including the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. Kushner, like Trump, is a real estate magnate with numerous holdings throughout the U.S. who inherited his wealth from his father.The nepotism in the Trump administration would seem familiar in foreign countries with high rates of corruption, according to U.S. diplomats who have served in them.“For many countries and governments, certainly in the Gulf, in the Middle East, they would recognize this pattern immediately,” Gerald Feierstein, who served as ambassador to Yemen from 2010 to 2013 and worked as a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration, told HuffPost. “I think that they would find it completely normal that leaders mix personal business interests with government affairs and would use family members in various official responsibilities.”The Washington Post via Getty ImagesJared Kushner, senior adviser and son-in-law, listens to Donald Trump during a White House session with cybersecurity experts.Joseph C. Wilson IV, former ambassador to Gabon and Sao Tome and Principe from 1992 to 1995 and deputy chief of mission in Iraq during the first Gulf War, told HuffPost, “If you’re an overseas businessman or politician who wants to curry favor with the Trump family, it doesn’t hurt to provide these little niceties to them. Things such as having a conference at the Trump hotel in Washington or entertaining at the Trump hotel, that you already see.”Foreign countries have indeed taken advantage of the continued business ownership of Trump and his children/advisers.China approved five new trademarks for Ivanka Trump’s business on the same day she met with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Ivanka’s business already had 16 registered trademarks in the country and has 30 more pending. The new trademarks covered the brand-name rights for jewelry, spa services and purses. The vast majority of Ivanka Trump’s product line is made in China and imported to the U.S.Kushner’s company was seeking an investment from a politically connected Chinese bank into the largest property he owns. Those negotiations ended after members of Congress and others questioned whether it would create a conflict of interest with his work as a go-between for the White House and Chinese leadership. (Kushner sold his stake in the building to a private trust controlled by his family members.)Foreign governments, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Azerbaijan and Turkey, have held or plan to hold events at Trump’s D.C. hotel, which both the president and his daughter have a stake in. It is not known how many diplomats and foreign dignitaries have decided to book rooms at Trump hotels or properties since the president took office.“I think the Chinese have already completely figured it out,” Feierstein said. “I would say the Arabs have figured it out. Because, again, from their perspective, this isn’t an unusual thing. One way of ensuring favorable treatment is you take care of the business interests.”SABAH ARAR via Getty ImagesSupporters of Iraqi cleric Moqtada al-Sadr demonstrate in Baghdad on Feb. 8 to demand reforms from Iraq's leading parties, which they accuse of corruption and nepotism.Not all former diplomats see Trump’s nepotistic governing arrangement through the lens of foreign nations.“Actually I would compare it to what I’ve seen in Washington,” Ambassador John Herbst, who headed the embassy in Uzbekistan from 2000 to 2003 and in Ukraine from 2003 to 2006, told HuffPost.Herbst is right: The U.S. has its own long tradition of political nepotism. President George Washington was opposed to nepotism, but his successor, John Adams, appointed his son John Quincy Adams as minister to Prussia. Unlike Kushner and Ivanka Trump, John Quincy Adams had already, perhaps against his wishes, worked as minister to the Netherlands during Washington’s administration. “I rather wish it had not been made at all,” Adams lamented about the Netherlands posting. Later, President John F. Kennedy appointed his brother Robert as attorney general.When President Bill Clinton tapped his wife, Hillary Clinton, to lead an effort to reform health care in 1993, conservative and medical industry groups charged that her appointment violated either a 1967 anti-nepotism law or a federal advisory committee law requiring public meetings. But two appeals court judges ruled that Hillary Clinton’s White House role was not a violation of the anti-nepotism law. The decision stated that the nepotism law probably did not apply to White House adviser positions, particularly if they were unpaid.“The anti-nepotism statute, moreover, may well bar appointment only to paid positions in government,” D.C. Circuit Court Judges Laurence Silberman and Stephen Williams wrote in  their 1993 decision . “Thus, even if it would prevent the President from putting his spouse on the federal payroll, it does not preclude his spouse from aiding the President in the performance of his duties.”The Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel made the same argument in a  14-page memo  rationalizing Trump’s appointment of his son-in-law as a White House adviser. The legal counsel also argued that a subsequent law providing the president with unilateral hiring authority in the White House superseded the possibility of the nepotism law restricting the employment of children or in-laws.Or, as Eric Trump, the co-head of the president’s multibillion-dollar international business, puts it, “Nepotism is kind of a factor of life.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/mark-green-gay-gestapo_us_591214f7e4b0a58297e01bd0?utm_hp_ref=us-politics
Trump’s Army Secretary Pick Is Victim Of ‘Gay Gestapo,’ Right Wing Activists ClaimFacing a barrage of criticism over remarks he made about the LGBTQ community, Tennessee state Sen. Mark Green (R) withdrew his name from consideration to become the next Army secretary Friday.Green had been tapped by President Donald Trump for the role April 7, and put his previously announced run for governor of Tennessee on hold after receiving the nomination. However, it didn’t take long for Green’s controversial LGBTQ views to resurface in the wake of the appointment. The senator, who has supported anti-LGBTQ legislation in his state, suggested that being transgender is a “disease” while speaking to the Chattanooga Tea Party in September, HuffPost first reported in February.In June 2016, he said he opposed policies that allow trans people to use the restroom that corresponds with their gender identity for biblical reasons, because he needs to “crush evil.”In a Friday statement, Green said he felt his Christian beliefs had been “mischaracterized and attacked by a few on the other side of the aisle for political gain.” Nonetheless, he said he was declining the nomination in an effort to give Trump “the ability to move forward with his vision to restore our military to its rightful place in the world.”LGBTQ advocacy groups hailed news of Green’s backing out as a victory. Religious right activists, however, felt differently, arguing that the senator had been wrongly “demonized” because of his comments.In a Monday blog post, American Family Association radio host Bryan Fischer blasted the “Gay Gestapo” for forcing Green to decline the nomination, arguing that “every advance of the homosexual agenda comes at the expense of religious liberty.”“The homosexual activists ran Green out of town because he believes that honest mental health professionals will tell you that transgenderism ‘is a disease.’ This is indisputably true,” Fischer wrote. He then added that Green’s backing out reflected badly on Trump’s proclaimed support of “religious liberty,” noting, “He will not be, his religious liberty order notwithstanding, America’s defender of the faith.”Also leading the chorus of conservative voices to defend Green was Peter LaBarbera of the Americans for Truth About Homosexuality (AFTAH). In a Monday appearance on “Janet Mefferd Today,” LaBarbera suggested that Christians and conservatives need “a rapid defense network” to fight back against “anti-Christian leftist bigotry.”Listen to LaBarbera’s remarks, courtesy of Right Wing Watch, below.The Family Research Council’s Tony Perkins echoed those sentiments in a Monday blog post, writing that Green had been “maligned, misquoted, and mistreated by liberals desperate to keep a pro-family, pro-gun, pro-freedom, pro-marriage leader from a position of military authority.”“After two terms of political correctness, our soldiers deserve an Army Secretary who will do whatever it takes to boost morale, defend freedom, and restore readiness,” Perkins, whose opposition to LGBTQ issues is well-established, wrote. “Anything less not only puts the military at risk, but America too.”Green is now the second of Trump’s Army secretary nominees to withdraw from consideration. In February, Wall Street billionaire Vincent Viola backed out, saying he felt he would not be able to successfully navigate the confirmation process because of his business dealings.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/the-pivotal-importance-of-purposeful-philanthropy-in_us_58fdf357e4b086ce58981316?section=us_politics
The Pivotal Importance Of Purposeful Philanthropy In The United StatesPresident Trump’s “America First” federal budget proposes drastic cuts or the outright elimination of many programs that support the socially and economically disadvantaged; scientific and health research; education; and, the arts. If it is enacted in full, or in part, it will have a dramatic negative effect on this nation and many of its citizens.That will make philanthropy even more critical than it is today here in the United States for promoting the common good and equality of opportunity for all and not just the privileged few.Philanthropy takes many forms. The philanthropy that will be of pivotal importance in this regard, in our opinion, is what we call purposeful philanthropy.Purposeful philanthropy is making investments directed at creating a difference in pivot point areas that matter to the future of American society. The returns on those investments are changes to problematic conditions and/or the creation of individuals who will become change agents to address those conditions.There is a distinction between purposeful philanthropy and charity. The focus in charity is to provide a handout. The focus in purposeful philanthropy is to provide a hand-up.If there are huge federal cutbacks in domestic programs that benefit the poor and the working poor, there will definitely need to be increased charitable support to compensate somewhat for those losses. The handout approach, however, has serious limitations. It does not get at the root cause nor change the underlying reason for the need for the charity.By contrast, purposeful philanthropy focuses on improving circumstances and conditions. This hand-up approach can address a wide range of areas ranging from eliminating contaminated water that poisons those who drink or bathe in it to enhancing the safety of working conditions to developing the requisite knowledge, skills, abilities, attitudes and behaviors for a person to be successful in life.The pivot point areas – areas that can be leveraged and addressed effectively in order to effectuate change and achieve positive outcomes – for purposeful philanthropy are virtually endless.We both practice purposeful philanthropy. Frank Islam’s priority areas are education, arts, world peace, and civic engagement.He chose those areas because they are important to him and because he knows that improvement in them can make a substantial difference. The short reasons for his picking and investing in these areas are as follows:Education is the great equalizer and opportunity creator. It moves people up the ladder and to help others climb the ladder with them. It is the gift that keeps on giving.As President John F. Kennedy said, “Art nourishes the roots of a culture.” It connects and inspires citizens and communities. It has a unifying and healing power.We are living in an increasingly dangerous world and times. World peace is essential for the future of this planet. There is a deadly conflict now and threats of it around the globe which must be controlled.The United States of America and India are the world’s two largest democracies. Civic engagement is essential to keep those democracies vibrant and vital.Frank is actively involved in all of these areas contributing considerable time and financial support. He serves on a number of boards and advisory councils including the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees, the U.S. Institute of Peace, the Woodrow Wilson Center, and the Brookings Institution. He also serves on various boards and councils at more than half-dozen universities including Johns Hopkins University, American University, and George Mason University.In contrast to Frank, Ed Crego concentrates the bulk of his investments in a single area – a civics program for middle school students in Illinois called Our American Voice (OAV). OAV is operated by the Barat Education Foundation which is headed by Ed’s wife, Sheila Smith. Over the past seven years, OAV has engaged and empowered hundred of kids from disadvantaged communities across Illinois in its classroom and community projects designed “to create the citizens of tomorrow today.”We name these pivot point areas for illustration purposes only. Each citizen must choose an area or areas that matters to them for their purposeful philanthropy.The essential thing is to make that choice and to invest. The size of that investment isn’t what counts. The act of investment not only of money, but also of time and talent is what does.A federal budget of the type that has been proposed will put millions of Americans at risk. Purposeful philanthropy can help reduce and minimize that risk.It provides the platform for maximizing a citizen’s participation and contribution to assisting other citizens thus enabling the United States to achieve its full potential. It is a pivotal idea whose time has come.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-rexnord-obama_us_59108db1e4b0e7021e999066?utm_hp_ref=us-politics
Trump Blames Obama For Factory Layoffs Happening NowWASHINGTON ― Former President Barack Obama is to blame for l ayoffs currently happening at a factory in Indiana, President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday evening.“Rexnord of Indiana made a deal during the Obama Administration to move to Mexico,” Trump  wrote on Twitter . “Fired their employees. Tax product big that’s sold in U.S.”Rexnord announced in October that it would  close the plant and replace it with one in Mexico . Sunday night’s tweet is Trump’s second public comment on the company’s plans; he said in December that the layoffs were vicious.“He made the tweet back in whenever he made the tweet and he did nothing until now,” Don Zering, president of the United Steelworkers union at Rexnord.“That wasn’t nothing but him just blaming it on Obama,” Zering said. “Obama’s not in there anymore.”Trump said during his campaign that he would stop factory layoffs like the ones at Rexnord. He also pledged to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, which makes it easy for companies to sell products across the border. Undoing trade deals would allow Trump to “tax product big that’s sold in U.S.,” but  the president hasn’t followed through  on his campaign promise yet.Shortly after winning the presidency, however, Trump negotiated a deal with the air-conditioner manufacturer Carrier that kept the firm from closing an Indiana plant and replacing it with one in Mexico. Because the same union represents workers at both the Carrier and Rexnord plants, Rexnord workers hoped the president might save their jobs, too.As HuffPost reported in April, an Indy Star profile of a Rexnord worker prompted the administration to seek additional info about the layoffs from the United Steelworkers union. Trump’s tweet on Sunday was apparently in response to media coverage of the plant, as it came after an NBC Nightly News story on the plant closing.About 100 of the 300 workers slated for layoffs at Rexnord are already gone, Zering said. He said he expects the plant, which manufactures bearings for heavy machinery, to close in June ― and that he’s not holding his breath for Trump or Vice President Mike Pence, the former governor of Indiana, to intervene.“I hope that he does something about it but Pence was here, Pence didn’t give a shit about the jobs,” Zering said.The company didn’t respond to a request for comment.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/whats-old-is-new-again-is-democratic-socialists-of_us_58fdd59ee4b0f420ad99c9b4?section=us_politics
Is Democratic Socialists Of America The Future Of The Left?Instead of rehashing debates on Bernie or Clinton or whatever other leader, I’d rather focus on the state of progressive organizing at the grassroots that can ideally produce the political strength to elect whatever leader we want in the future—and the mass organization to build real change.So I’m going to focus in this post on the Democratic Socialists of America (DSA), which I rejoined last December after many years and I finally made a branch meeting last Wednesday. And I’d say the future looks bright if that meeting is any indication.DSA’s Explosive GrowthDSA has had explosive growth over the last year, attaining a membership of 20,000 nationally as announced at the branch meeting, something like four times the membership of just a year or so earlier. That number was announced as larger than any explicitly socialist organization has had since the 1960s—which sounds about right given the implosion of the Left into the swamp of tiny sects in the wake of the breakup of the original Socialist Party and the meltdown of Students for a Democratic Society and other large left currents after 1968. DSA itself is the lineal descendant of Debs’ original Socialist Party and had some presence on the left in the 1970s and early 1980s but had become far less vibrant with what seemed mostly a paper membership in recent decades.What has been most impressive about DSA in the last year is not just people symbolically signing up and paying membership dues, but the active expansion of new chapters in towns and cities across the country. Partly the organization benefitted from allying with the Bernie Sanders movement during 2016 but also continued membership and chapter growth post-election as people looked for a group to do work within during the Trump resistance period (a grouping where I would put myself).In New York City, this has meant the expansion of new working groups and chapters outside its traditional meetings in Brooklyn, the largest being a new chapter for “Uptown Manhattan and the Bronx,” which has now held four monthly membership meetings.Multi-Issue, Multi-Racial Organizing as a GoalThe meeting I attended this past Wednesday reflected smart, energetic organizing with roughly 100 people packed into a room in the Bronx. The folks running the meeting had the right mix of taking the enterprise seriously while not taking themselves too seriously, with much of the focus on introducing the organization as well as the campaigns DSA members were working on throughout the city. The list was impressive, including support for striking workers, work to close Rikers Island, supporting the Climate Change March, working to build immigrant rights solidarity in neighborhoods against ICE raids, and other issue work on housing, socialist feminism, electoral work and political education.While much of that DSA action is by nature working with and through already existing groups focused on those issues, the point of a shared organization that can identify key events and organizations to work with for those committed already to multi-issue work is an obvious service. The political education and discussion groups are also there to deepen the “why act” and provide discussions of strategy that many left activists are obviously thirsty to engage with.More importantly, DSA argues that working on multiple issues, especially those impacting communities of color, is the first step in building a more effective multi-racial organization. In its most recent 2016 strategy document, DSA is quite honest in admitting it has been made up disproportionately of “white (particularly male) activists” so it makes it a priority to build “deeper ties with organizations representing poor and working-class women and people of color, and by devoting significant organizational resources to educating our members about the importance of anti-racist organizing.”Building Socialism and Organizing AlliancesDSA seems relatively light on the impulse to project socialist propaganda onto the groups and individuals they work with outside the organization, but obviously sees this engagement in diverse communities as the best way to recruit new members to the organization and promote socialist politics in an ideally increasingly multi-racial organization through that engagement. Still, it’s a healthy position that the organization argues “DSA’s role in building progressive social movements is essential to our work; regardless of what we gain as an organization from this work, it is an end in itself.”However, the meeting I attended did emphasize membership recruitment, both thinking about how to have new people sign up but also how to mobilize the paper membership to do more, whether through one-on-one meetings with designated “mobilizers” or through hosting political education get-togethers in local homes throughout the City. The aspiration to membership growth goes hand-in-hand with a serious hope of eventually building up the critical mass of socialist-oriented activists where “we can talk seriously about the transition to democratic socialism through reforms that fundamentally undermine the power of the capitalist system.”DSA argues that working on multiple issues, especially those impacting communities of color, is the first step in building a more effective multi-racial organization.If there is anything missing in DSA’s official strategy document and in the discussions of goals at the meeting I attended (although it was just one meeting), it’s the role DSA could hope to play in what could be called “popular front” facilitation. Progressives build endless coalitions but few that really develop long-term alliances that can execute multi-year strategies, especially strategies that extend beyond single issues. Most organizational alliances today are based on foundation-funder pressures/demands more than organically determined strategy pushed by mass memberships.But back in the 1980s, Irving Howe, one of the founders of the DSA-aligned Dissent magazine, advocated in his book Socialism and America reviving 1930s-style “Popular Front” alliances, minus the sometimes anti-democratic role of the Communist Party, where leftists and more liberal groups would come together to promote longer-term strategies for social change. Precisely because DSA is building a large membership working in multiple issue areas and with multiple organizations, it can aspire as it grows to help push progressive organizations to work more closely together, not based on controlling the purse strings as foundations do but by having critical masses of members and activists doing so from within multiple groups. And to the extent that progressive organizational leaders come to share membership in DSA or have sympathies with its politics, DSA could help promote those kinds of strategic discussions, both among local organizations where chapters are located and among national leaders where possible.A Few Quibbles With the Branch MeetingIf I had a criticism of the DSA branch meeting, it was the attempt to insert an educational speaker in the middle of the organizing meeting, in this case a talk on environmental justice and socialism. While I understand the goal of keeping a focus on ideas in the middle of the “business” of the meeting, it’s hard to do a talk at a general meeting that is not either too basic for some experienced folks or too esoteric for others. I generally think left education is better done at separate meetings or possibly as an optional add-on once the business part of the meeting is done. And I do think formal debates, where the focus is on active intellectual or strategic differences is more engaging for such a meeting than a stand-alone single speaker in general.I’d rather have seen that time used for breakout sessions to plan specific work, since, while there were signup sheets for all the different chapter work announced, I’m a great believer in having anyone showing up at a meeting leave with a specific task to do. There could easily be short work sessions built around some of the issue working groups or around even more local neighborhood focused outreach. Including all of the Bronx and Northern Manhattan in a single branch still means it’s covering over two million people, so eventually, if successful, the branch will need to break up into multiple, even more local chapters. I had to travel 40 minutes on multiple trains to get to this meeting, so I look forward to when there is a Washington Heights chapter only a quick bike ride away from my own home.Looking Towards the FutureBut those small quibbles aside, the meeting was vibrant with lots of different people taking leadership roles and clear energy to get things done. And even better, the meeting ended with everyone migrating to another room with music and a free bar where people could drink and talk.It is no small thing to have a membership organization of 20,000 avowed democratic socialists growing rapidly across the country. If it can grow another order of magnitude and better expand its internal racial diversity, DSA could easily become one of the key organizational vehicles where activists across the country can debate key issues and promote a shared strategy for radical change.I had originally hoped that the Sanders campaign would build that vehicle, thinking DSA’s day had passed, but DSA smartly took advantage of the Sanders upsurge to revitalize itself. And with the Sanders-created “Our Revolution” organization lacking internal democratic structures, DSA has ended up the only national structure where individual activists actually can have a voice and a vote for leadership in a large socialist-oriented organization along the line of Sanders-style politics - with a bit more recognition than Sanders himself that anti-racism politics must be a more central part of any socialist-oriented platform.That individual vote by members controlling the organization is no small thing. There really are very few multi-issue national organizations, socialist or not, working on such a wide variety of issues where the leadership is elected by the membership. Labor unions do this to a certain extent but you can’t walk off the street and join if there isn’t one in your workplace – that lack being a sad reality for most of the population. There are a few venerable organizations like the NAACP and the Sierra Club with real membership and an elected board of directors, but national, membership-controlled organizations are surprisingly scarce on the progressive landscape. So DSA being a place where anyone can pay their dues and have a vote on its leadership and its organizational direction gives it a mostly unique role in the current progressive array of national organizations.More than 116 years after Eugene Debs founded the Socialist Party of America, the future of socialism in the US may be reemerging from its lineal descendant. It’s early and DSA self-admittedly needs to grow significantly both in numbers and diversity to warrant that hope fully, but it seems to be making the right decisions and engaging activists in the right ways to make that role a real possibility.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-transition-sensitive-information_us_590dd2bce4b0e7021e981d2b?utm_hp_ref=us-politics
Trump Transition’s Handling Of Sensitive Details Reportedly Alarmed Obama OfficialsTrump transition officials copied highly sensitive documents and removed them from a secure facility during the presidential transition, alarming Obama administration officials, The Associated Press reported Saturday.The practice reportedly prompted officials for then-President Barack Obama to only allow their Trump team counterparts to view the documents at a secure White House facility. The documents included information such as the government’s plan for crises, the AP noted.Several investigations are examining alleged links between President Donald Trump and his associates and Russia. During the presidential campaign, Trump criticized rival presidential candidate Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server and account to conduct government business. FBI director James Comey said Clinton had been “extremely careless” in the way she handled classified information.The AP report also reveals that Marshall Billingslea, a Trump official, asked the Obama administration for a copy of the CIA’s profile on Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, on behalf of his boss, Michael Flynn. It was Billingslea who offered to get the profile, but Flynn did not object, according to The Washington Post. The dossier was delivered to Flynn, the Post reported, but it’s not clear whether he ever read it.Flynn, tapped to be Trump’s national security adviser, spoke with Kislyak multiple times before inauguration day and discussed newly imposed sanctions against Russia, despite warnings that U.S. intelligence was monitoring the ambassador, according to the Post. Flynn resigned in February after misleading White House officials about the nature of his conversations with Kislyak. His contact with Russia continues to be under scrutiny.Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law, were among the other Trump officials to meet with Kislyak before the president’s inauguration. Sessions recused himself from any investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia after he failed to disclose the meeting during his confirmation hearing.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/democrats-donald-trump-congress-address_us_58b63b83e4b0780bac2e45b5?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Democrats On Donald Trump’s Address To Congress: It Was ‘Surreal’WASHINGTON ― Democrats left President Donald  Trump’s  first address to Congress feeling less like they’d watched a presidential speech and more like they’d wandered into an alternate universe.Yes, they are still disappointed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton was not standing before the assembled lawmakers. But they’ve moved beyond the November loss and now find themselves wrestling with a reality that, to put it bluntly, they find bizarre, and even threatening.“It was a surreal experience,” Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) told The Huffington Post moments after Trump’s address. “We have a reality show host in the White House masquerading as the president of the United States of America and half the country is still in complete shock.”For freshman Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-Md.), a constitutional law professor who won election in November, it was unlike anything he’s ever heard.“To me, it actually felt a little bit like The Hunger Games at points. There was something kind of dystopian, science fiction about the experience,” he said. “I looked up and I saw [former House Speaker] Newt Gingrich and suddenly I felt that I was transported to a different world.”Raskin added that Trump’s remarks were “toned down” compared to the “blood and gore and American carnage” in the president’s inaugural address.“But the basic Steve Bannon program was still there,” he said, referring to Trump’s controversial chief strategist.Pressed on if there was anything they liked in Trump’s speech, several Democrats said his call for paid family leave but nothing else. And the lack of specifics didn’t surprise or sadden them.“Depressing? “It wasn’t. It was almost surreal,” Rep. Barbara Lee (D-Calif.) said. “This is someone who came from the reality show environment. That’s his platform.”Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), the House Democratic Caucus Chair, also felt the entire day was “surreal.”“This president gives me a raison d’être to wake up every morning and say, ‘What has he said today and how can I go after him?’” Crowley said. “I’ve got news for him this is not reality TV, this is the real deal.”House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) went into the chamber Tuesday night with little hope that Trump would strike a unifying tone.“One of the things we’ve learned in the last 15 months ― don’t be surprised by what Donald Trump does,” Hoyer told HuffPost. “He almost always does what you don’t expect, and does what you don’t think he ought to be doing.”If anything, Democrats appeared energized. The address Trump gave Tuesday won’t quell the unrest that has sprouted up in their states across the country.Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) emailed a one-word statement after the speech: “Resist.”Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) admitted there were rough days after election, but he appeared eager for the fights that are ahead of Democrats under Trump’s presidency.“When Hillary first lost, I was shocked. And I taught my daughters — they were shocked too, one of them was working for Hillary — and I taught them the old  Shirelles song , ‘Mama said there’d be days like this, there’d be days like this my mama said,’” Schumer said.But then he said he had an epiphany-like moment during the first week of Trump’s presidency that had Clinton won the election, they’d have fun and “get more good things done.” “But with Trump as president and with me as minority leader, my job was much more important because we were the backstop, just about the only one to Donald Trump,” he added. “And that steeled me.”Pointing to the debate raging over Trump’s plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act as one example, Schumer said, Democrats are succeeding. “We’re on offense and my prediction is that odds are greater than half that we keep ACA,” he said.“We need to be strong in the Senate, and they need to be strong in the streets,” Schumer said, “and if together, we’re working together, we can stop this guy and turn America back to where it should be going.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-joint-address-congress_us_58b66849e4b060480e0cf6cf?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Donald Trump Urges Unity With All The Lawmakers He’s Insulted For The Past YearWASHINGTON ― If anyone was hoping for fireworks in President Donald  Trump ’s first joint address to Congress, Tuesday night was a big disappointment.Trump actually stayed on script for an hour. Republicans got up and applauded him on cue; Democrats stayed quiet on cue. There were no dramatic outbursts by lawmakers, like Rep. Joe Wilson’s (R-S.C.) infamous “you lie!” moment at one of President Barack Obama’s addresses. Instead, Democrats waged a silent protest against Trump. Congresswomen  dressed in all white  in a nod to the suffragette movement and women’s rights. Rep. Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.), who has  made a tradition out of snagging an aisle seat  and getting himself on TV shaking the president’s hand as he walks by, didn’t do either this time.But if you were looking for excitement, that was it. It was a ceremony that, for the most part, was just as boring and routine as these things go.Yet there was something bizarre about Trump glad-handing his way through the House chamber like past presidents and imploring Congress to enact his policies: He was appealing to a roomful of people that he’s been insulting and humiliating for the last year.House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) sat behind Trump on the dais for the duration of his speech, smiling and applauding with everyone else. But it was just months ago that Trump lashed out at Ryan, calling him “ a man who doesn’t know how to win ” and “ very weak and ineffective. ” That was around the same time, in October, that Ryan disinvited Trump from an event in his home state, after a 2005 video surfaced of Trump making crude and sexist remarks about women.Looking out into the crowd, a few rows in, Trump could easily spot Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), the target of some of his nastiest attacks on the campaign trail. Among other things, Trump fueled a conspiracy theory that “Lyin’ Ted’s” father  was an associate of President John F. Kennedy’s murderer . Trump also tweeted an unflattering photo of the senator’s wife, Heidi Cruz, with a warning that he would  “spill the beans”  on something about her.A couple of seats over from Cruz sat Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), aka “Little Marco,” who Trump  accused of being corrupt . Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) also sat up front during Tuesday’s speech. Trump has called Graham  “one of the dumbest human beings I’ve ever seen ,” and criticized McCain’s status as a  war hero because he got captured and spent five and a half years in a North Vietnamese prison.Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) was also in clear view of the president . Trump has gone relatively easy on him; he’s just made fun of  the way he looks.Those are just some of the Republicans that have been on the receiving end of Trump’s assaults. He’s gone after plenty of Democrats who were in the room, too. These include Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), who  Trump accused of crying fake tears , and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who he’s called  “incompetent.”And yet, on Tuesday night, the same president who still gloats about his win and the size of his crowds said he came to Congress with a message of unity.“The time for small thinking is over. The time for trivial fights is behind us,” Trump declared to audible laughs from Democrats. “ We just need the courage to share the dreams that fill our hearts.”POOL New / ReutersPresident Donald Trump appealed to Congress to work together to get things done, despite the fact that he's accused lawmakers of being stupid, ugly and weak.After the speech, Republicans were reluctant to say anything critical of the president or his newfound message of harmony.“I think he and the speaker get along very well,” said Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.). “It wasn’t surreal at all.”But some admitted they were just relieved he didn’t go off script and start insulting people.“I count my blessings. No belligerence tonight was among them,” Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) told The Huffington Post.Sanford acknowledged the absurdity of Trump urging unity with the same people he’s torn to shreds in the past year. He just put it more diplomatically.“I would just say this: Memories tend to die slowly in the world of politics,” he said. “I don’t think it was lost on many of the people who have been contestants in the Republican primary, or maybe on the opposite side of a policy debate in the campaign, that some of what he said was maybe a long way from what he said ten months ago, or six months ago.”Democrats were more willing to point out the gaping disconnect between the president’s words and his persona.“It felt surreal to see Donald Trump walk in and be identified as the president of the United States and start giving that speech,” said Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), who Trump trolled last month on Twitter over his role in Democratic National Committee elections.“He goes in there and gives a speech, where he says a few nice things about some people with illnesses and some soldiers and some police officers, and now all of a sudden we think he’s a good guy?” Ellison said. “He’s not a good guy. He’s a good actor.”In the end, there was one thing that did make Trump’s joint address to Congress different from those of his predecessors: immediately after his speech, Democrats got up and left without waiting to see him off first.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/connecticut-special-election_us_58b6491be4b0a8a9b7872cc1?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Democrats Come Up Short But Outperform Expectations In Yet Another Special ElectionWASHINGTON ― While President Donald Trump was delivering his first address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday, Democrats got the highest vote percentage they have ever received in the most Republican state Senate district in Connecticut. Democrat Greg Cava lost the election, but it was another small sign of improving electoral conditions for Democrats.Republican Eric Berthel defeated Cava in the special election to fill Connecticut’s vacant 32nd state Senate district by a 54-44 margin, according to the official results. That doesn’t sound so great, until you look at the district’s past elections. Not only have Republicans held the seat for a century, but Cava received the highest percentage of any Democrat in recent memory.“Early returns show that the Democrat just barely lost SD32, literally the most Republican Senate district in the state,” Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee communications director Carolyn Fiddler said in an email. “If true, the extreme level of Democratic over-performance in a district Republicans won 2-1 just last fall should terrify the GOP. This kind of Democratic strength will be the death of Republicans this cycle in GOP-held seats that are even remotely competitive.”“We had a very good candidate who worked hard,” said Connecticut Senate Majority Leader Bob Duff (D). “We also had an energized base to get out the vote.”Ever since Trump’s inauguration and the Women’s March the day after, Democrats have been inundated with a new wave of activism, from the national level to the hyperlocal.Activists have flocked to their local Democratic Party headquarters to an extent not previously seen. Many are looking to volunteer, protest or run for office for the first time. Mark Fraley, chairman of the Monroe County Democratic Party in Indiana, previously told The Huffington Post, “I’m as busy this year as I was at any time last year in the heat of a huge election.”Turnout was much higher than anticipated for Connecticut’s special election. In three towns, Washington, Roxbury and Southbury, the polling locations ran out of ballots and had to tabulate votes by hand.Both candidates received small injections of outside money. Berthel was boosted by the National Rifle Association and Grow Connecticut, a Republican Party super PAC. Cava was supported by $50,000 from Wolf PAC, a super PAC aimed at enacting campaign finance reform that was founded by Cenk Uygur, host of the progressive online news show “The Young Turks.”Democratic candidates across the country have overperformed in three special elections since the Women’s March.In addition to the loss in Connecticut, the Democratic candidate in a Republican state House district in Minnesota recently lost by fewer than 500 votes. And on Saturday, Democrat Stephanie Hansen won a resounding 18 percent victory in a swing state Senate seat in Delaware.Hansen’s win was aided by hundreds of volunteers inspired by the Women’s March and organized by the DLCC, local Democratic Party groups and new activist groups that have popped up in the past month.Connecticut Democrats also won two easy victories in safe districts in special elections on Tuesday.Duff tied the party’s good performance in Connecticut to the national mood: “If I was a Republican right now I would be shaking in my boots, because this is not good news for their brand and reputation.”The next big test for the Democratic activism boom will be the April 18   special election in Georgia to fill the House seat vacated by Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, a Republican.While Price won re-election easily in 2016, the district shifted heavily toward the Democratic column at the presidential level. Trump won the district by just 1 percent over former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. That was a major shift from 2012, when Republican Mitt Romney beat President Barack Obama by 24 percent.CORRECTION: A previous version of this article misspelled Berthel’s last name.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-congress-address-health-care_us_58b63d7fe4b0a8a9b787232e?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Donald Trump Talks Health Care To Congress But Doesn’t Say MuchPresident  Donald Trump  renewed his call to repeal and “replace” the Affordable Care Act during his address to a joint session of Congress Tuesday, but he once again did not offer any real details about what should succeed the landmark health care overhaul.Throughout his campaign and ever since his surprising  Election Day  victory, Trump has promised to produce a plan that would reduce cost and increase access, a vow  he restated Monday . But outside of some general platitudes that Trump has long endorsed, the president offered no new guidelines for a replacement to former President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 law, which extended coverage to  20 million previously uninsured Americans .While Trump’s speech will likely win praise from congressional  Republicans , and his general principles for health care may allay some in the general public, Trump didn’t say anything likely to quell  the discontent  among the House and Senate  GOP  as they wade into policy specifics that have left them reeling.“He talked about repeal and replace tonight  . Fine. He needs to present something,” Tuesday   Group Chairman Charlie Dent (R-Pa.) said after the speech. “He provided some detail; we’ll need more.”In his remarks to lawmakers, Trump disappointed anyone  hoping he would take the lead  on the Obamacare repeal and “replace” effort amid the increasingly difficult political atmosphere characterized by angry citizens  storming lawmakers’ town halls  and the  suddenly rising popularity  of the health care law.Republicans applauded Trump’s exhortation to gut Obamacare, and they found other things to cheer during the five-minute health care portion of his speech. But for the lawmakers actually familiar with the complexity of “replacing” the Affordable Care Act, it was revealing that the president put the onus on Congress to resolve this issue.Compare that vague, lead-from-behind approach to Trump’s section on a tax overhaul, where he said, “My economic team is developing historic tax reform.”Where tax reform is his, Obamacare is on Congress, Trump seemed to be saying.Tellingly, Trump also made a plea for bipartisan action on  health care reform . “I am calling on all Democrats and Republicans in the Congress to work with us to save Americans from this imploding Obamacare disaster,” he said.Part of this is mere math: Republicans hold a slim majority in the  Senate  and will need Democratic votes to advance major parts of their health care agenda.But it also calls to mind Trump’s repeated statements ― including just  a day ago  ― that his best political course would be to stand pat and do nothing to address the health care system, in hopes any further troubles will be blamed on the  Democrats  who created the Affordable Care Act.Trump mostly recounted common talking points about the shortcomings of the  Affordable Care Act  and the promises that Republican policies would be superior. Unlike he repeatedly has vowed, however, Trump shied away from  promising universal health care coverage .As he did during his presidential campaign, Trump hit several major themes that broadly adhere to Republican orthodoxy on health care policy:Health insurance costs are too high. Consumers have too few insurers to choose from. States need more flexibility to alter their Medicaid programs. Americans should have greater access to tax-free health savings accounts. Health insurers should be permitted to sell policies to out-of-state customers. Trump also called for limits on medical malpractice lawsuits and lower prescription drug prices.One part that Republicans will certainly take note of will be Trump’s endorsement of tax credits.  Conservatives  are currently locked in a fight with GOP leadership over the idea of advance refundable tax credits.But Trump’s speech didn’t wade deeply enough into the weeds for anyone to really determine whether he supports the specific tax credits proposed by House Speaker  Paul Ryan  (R-Wis.) and opposed by conservative factions in Congress, or some other type of tax credit.Trump said he favors tax credits to defray the cost of insurance and access to coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, but failed to say how.“There were no specifics on that end,” House Freedom Caucus member Rep. Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) said, referring to Trump’s call for tax credits in a replacement, “and I think that’s an important thing to note.”The Freedom Caucus has come out forcefully against any Obamacare alternative that uses advance refundable tax credits, arguing that it would create a new entitlement program. Trump endorsed the idea of “tax credits” in a replacement, but he didn’t clarify what that means, leaving Republicans free to interpret that principle as whatever they want.“I don’t believe we heard any specific legislative endorsements,” Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) said Tuesday   night in response to a question about the tax credits.Plans circulating on Capitol Hill so far would lead to  far fewer people covered  by health insurance and to  higher out-of-pocket costs , especially for older people and those with low incomes. A draft House Republican bill ― since  disavowed  by GOP leadership ― would offer financial assistance to some Americans and a form of protections for people with pre-existing conditions, but they  fall far short  of what the Affordable Care Act already provides.Trump’s address Tuesday   night may get a warm Republican reception, and his lack of specifics may mean that every corner of the GOP conference can claim that Trump is really on their side, but it did nothing to bring Republicans out of their Obamacare quagmire and won’t provide the protection that GOP leadership may have wanted from Trump owning a repeal.This story has been updated to include comment from Palmer, Cruz and Dent.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-joint-session-congress_us_58b5b202e4b0a8a9b78687d0?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Trump In The Belly Of The BeastWASHINGTON ― Only in America could a billionaire developer and TV star be an “outsider.” But that is how Donald Trump marketed himself, winning the Electoral College thanks in part to rural white voters who accepted his lies and loved his loathing of the Establishment.On Tuesday,  at 9 p.m. EST , Trump is set to take his outlaw act to the very heart of the federal capital and its culture. As he addresses his first joint session of Congress, he will literally be surrounded by leaders of the institutions and forces he claims to despise ― people whom he now needs to harness, or at least pacify, if he is to succeed.How will he behave, and what will he say, in the belly of the beast?His first five weeks as president have been, frankly, a mess. True, he has made a start ― largely symbolic ― on implementing some of his anti-regulatory and anti-immigrant ideas, following the pattern of his predecessor in using executive orders.But at the same time, Trump has fought a war with the press, with his own staff, with the bureaucracy in general and the intelligence community in particular, with foreign allies, with a federal appeals court ― and with himself, if his bizarre, stream-of-consciousness press conference this month is any indication. He has emitted a steady stream of boasts, “alternative facts,” accusations and outright lies as he struggles to gain traction ― and at this point in his term, he has the lowest approval rating of any president since Eisenhower.Even his friends doubt that this is the way to get the job done in Washington.“He knows it’s been a rocky start in some ways,” said a close friend who has known Trump for years, and who declined to be quoted by name so he could be frank. “I think he’s trying to do too much, on too many fronts. But Donald is a guy who does not know how to lose. He’s going to figure the thing out, believe me.”If he is, Tuesday evening will be  his best chance to start. Joint sessions are relics of another era. But their TV audiences are often huge, which is all the more important in a fragmented media world.Here’s what you have to understand, Donald, if you hope to use tonight  to launch your agenda in Congress and in the country as a whole:1. This isn’t WWE. Democrats are on to your game. They will try not to play it tonight . Rep. Dan Kildee (D-Mich.), who leads the Democrats’ floor-messaging operation in the House, told me that his troops have been warned not to let you turn the evening into a shouting, name-calling, political wrestling match. “Will someone shout ‘you lied,’ like Joe Wilson did years ago at Obama? Maybe, but I hope not,” Kildee said. “We can’t give him an excuse to turn the thing into political theater.”2. You aren’t the boss ― you’re the apprentice. You are the oldest person ever elected president, and the only one with no governmental experience of any kind, either in elective office or in the military. There are people in the room who can actually help you, if you let them.Yes, you were elected in part because you sold the notion that ignorance of the System is a virtue ― that’s what we all said as college kids in the ‘60s! ― but that can’t and won’t work in the Oval Office.3. You are not Ronald Reagan. The Gipper was a master of using TV to “go over the heads of Congress” in the early 1980s, using his forceful yet genial personality to put public pressure on lawmakers. But those were the days of “Reagan Democrats,” and Reagan’s appeals had a bipartisan effect. You have no purchase whatsoever with Democrats today, and very little at the moment with independents. You can firm up the GOP base, but that is already 85 percent in your corner, according to the polls.4. You don’t own the GOP; you are renting it. From the Conservative Political Action Conference to the cloakrooms of the Hill, Republicans and conservatives are impressed, even intimidated, by your salesmanship. But they’re also suspicious of your motives and your actual beliefs. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) is not going to forget that you tried to destroy him. Senate Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) was desperate to back anyone but you in 2016, and regards with horror your idea of managing the presidency with tweets. The poll numbers and threats to go after recalcitrant Republicans will keep the party in line – until the moment they don’t.5. You’re going to have to “own” health care. GOP leaders and rank-and-file members want to hear details about how you’ll “repair and replace” Obamacare. The health care law isn’t wildly popular, but it’s still more popular than dismantling it outright would be. Calling the matter “complicated” doesn’t get you off the hook. Republicans’ interest isn’t just idle curiosity: They want political cover, and that means details from you.6. Corollary: You need to be Bismarck, not Putin. Without calling it such, your vision of America is essentially a Daddy State ― nationalistic, border-closing and xenophobic, yet generous and concerned with the welfare of citizens and immigrants who profess their “love” for this country. If that is your model, you have to deliver. In the 19th century, Otto von Bismarck pioneered social insurance in part as a means of unifying Germany. It’s still a potent idea.Russia, though, is the opposite story. From Lenin to Putin, leaders there have claimed to offer cradle-to-grave care, but with disastrous results, then and now. That means you actually have to protect Social Security, Medicare and, yes, even the Medicaid portion of Obamcare in full.7. You can’t cook the books. The federal government isn’t a private family corporation, and you almost certainly can’t turn it into one. You can’t preemptively sue congressional committees to keep the real numbers away from them. You’ll most likely install pliable people atop the agencies that keep track of the figures, including the Office of Management and Budget, the Department of Labor and elsewhere. But the budget is too vast, and the machinery that keeps track of it too complex, for you to get away with cooking the numbers. (Let’s be honest: It didn’t really work in Atlantic City, either.) That means the budgets you propose, both the “skinny” first one and the fatter second one, will need to add up ― and they’ll show big deficits.8. You can’t govern as the heel. Yes, you came this far by being the hero people love to hate. In wrestling terms, you like being the “heel.” Your theory is that you can’t ever get 100 percent of the market, and that in a lethargic and cynical country, a fervent minority of voters is all you need to win. It worked in 2016, and you might think it could work now, since the GOP has a majority in both chambers. But simply bullying Republicans to keep them in line won’t be enough.For one thing, it’s not clear that McConnell is going to destroy the filibuster altogether, which means you will need 60 votes – including Democrats. For another, the GOP is not wholeheartedly behind you. And Americans like to like their president. It’s what presidents are for.You can’t govern solely with your own party, even though Barack Obama was often forced to do so. This is not a parliamentary system ― it is a presidential system with deliberate separation of powers. We need a president who seeks the moral authority to lead all of the people. Start acting like that kind of president. Tonight .
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/bernie-sanders-donald-trump-health-care_us_58b574ade4b060480e0bcf72?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Bernie Sanders On Trump’s Discovery That Health Care Is ‘So Complicated’: LOLSen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) appeared flabbergasted on Monday when President Donald Trump claimed that “nobody knew health care could be so complicated.”Trump met with health insurance executives and discussed Republicans’ efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, apparently only now becoming aware that the party hasn’t been able to come up with a plan because health care is “an unbelievably complex subject.”Later that evening, when CNN’s Anderson Cooper asked Sanders to respond, the senator laughed and shook his head, recalling the long legislative battles it took for progressives to pass the ACA.”Well, some of us who were sitting on the health education committee, who went to meeting after meeting after meeting, who heard from dozens of people, who stayed up night after night trying to figure out this thing ― yeah, we got a clue,” Sanders said. “When you provide health care in a nation of 320 million people, yeah, it is very, very complicated.”Sen. Bernie Sanders mocks President Trump saying nobody knew health care is "so complicated" https://t.co/TpQI6mVjDI https://t.co/xTaFEnVsCB— Anderson Cooper 360° (@AC360) February 28, 2017The senator laid into the GOP for repeatedly delaying introducing a replacement, despite pledging for years to repeal the law.“Maybe now, maybe the president and some of the Republicans understand [that] you can’t go beyond the rhetoric,” he said. “’We’re going to repeal the Affordable Care Act, we’re going to repeal Obamacare, and everything will be wonderful!’ A little more complicated than that.”Trump on Tuesday morning reiterated his discovery about the issue.“You know, health care is a very complex subject,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” “If you do this, it affects nine different things. If you do that, it affects 15 different things.”But Trump claimed that he has a “really terrific” replacement plan in the works.“It’s going to be something that’s going to be really respected,” he said.When asked on Monday about Trump’s presidency so far, Sanders said he was “stunned, really, every day.”“I mean, this is the president of the United States. We have been debating health care in this country for 30 years, and he says, ‘Gee, who knew how complicated it was?’” Sanders said. “He’s maybe the only person in this country who doesn’t know how complicated it is to provide health care for the American people.”
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-health-care-complicated_us_58b48652e4b0780bac2c54f0?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Yes, Mr. President, Health Care Is ‘Complicated.’ Now What Are You Going To Do About It?“Nobody knew health care could be so complicated.”That was President Donald Trump  speaking at the White House  Monday, and if anything can encapsulate the dilemma facing Republicans as they haltingly try to keep their campaign promises to repeal and “replace” the Affordable Care Act ― aka Obamacare ― it’s that.The idea that “nobody” knew health care is complicated is, of course, nonsense ― as literally anyone who’s ever visited a doctor or used health insurance could tell you. But the realization seems to have come belatedly to Trump.Perhaps Trump will use his address before a joint session of Congress Tuesday to lay out a detailed plan for how to remake the health care system. But the president’s own  shifting and contradictory statements  about health care reform suggest that he remains unclear about what to do and how much ownership to take of the consequences of repealing the Affordable Care Act.At a recent meeting with Ohio Gov. John Kasich (R), for example, Trump seemed to be swayed by appeals to keep much of the law’s coverage expansion in place. The governor drew charts on pieces of paper on the president’s desk outlining the potential costs of repeal, an aide familiar with the exchange told The Huffington Post.“He responded very positively to a number of the ideas I had,” Kasich, who used the Affordable Care Act to expand Medicaid,  said on CBS News’ “Face the Nation”  Sunday.Trump went over the charts three separate times, and even got his newly installed  Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price  on the phone to discuss it further, according to the aide. Other aides had to remind the president that the congressional Republican plans are far less generous, after which Trump  expressed preference  for Kasich’s approach, as The Washington Post reported.At a separate meeting with a bipartisan group of governors, meanwhile, Trump largely punted on details for his health care plan when pressed by attendees, a source familiar with the session who was not authorized to speak publicly about it told HuffPost. But when Price said that there would be a replacement plan in place about four weeks after repeal was enacted, Trump did chime in, saying it needed to be done in two or three weeks.House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) seem to have a better sense of where they want to go with repeal ― perhaps because they, especially Ryan, have spent more time focusing on the issue.But these congressional leaders haven’t been able to bridge  the divides  in their own skittish caucuses about the timing or scope of the repeal and “replace” effort. Meanwhile, there has been a  groundswell of anger  over the prospect of killing the  increasingly popular  law.Ryan appears desperate enough to advance Affordable Care Act repeal that he’s considering pushing legislation to the floor and essentially  daring reluctant and unsatisfied members  to vote against it, The Wall Street Journal reports.The bet is that few Republicans would pass up a chance to damage the Affordable Care Act, lest their supporters see them breaking their promise to do so. This trial balloon didn’t soar long: On Monday, Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), who chairs the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said that he would vote against a forthcoming GOP leadership proposal if, like a version that leaked to Politico last week, it still had elements of an entitlement program.That underscores Republicans’ risky bid. Additionally, legislators would have to be on record calling for millions of people to lose health care with no guarantee that the Senate would follow suit, or that Congress as a whole would eventually come up with something better than the Affordable Care Act.Aude Guerrucci/AFP/Getty ImagesPresident Donald Trump met with executives from large health insurance companies at the White House on Monday.This disarray is new ― although, in hindsight, it was to be expected. In the years since Democrats in Congress and then-President Barack Obama began putting together the Affordable Care Act and working to implement it, Republicans have had the luxury of sitting in the backseat, criticizing the law and talking about how much better they could do.Now they’re in the driver’s seat, and they can’t even agree on a destination, much less a route to get there.Republicans are trying to square their promises to, as Trump put it, offer “ great health care”  that’s “ much less expensive and much better”  while still eliminating the taxes on wealthy people and health care companies.That’s pretty much impossible, because those taxes pay for about half of what the Affordable Care Act does ― and there’s no enthusiasm for alternative ways to raise the money.Republicans also can’t square their promises of great health care with the party’s ideological commitment to smaller government, since without regulations, insurers will offer policies that cover fewer services and offer even less financial protection. And without generous government subsidies, poor people and many middle-class people won’t have enough money to buy coverage.That draft legislation that  leaked to Politico  makes clear how leaders intend to resolve the inconsistencies in their rhetoric. They would  weaken protections for people with pre-existing conditions  and dramatically slash federal spending on health care for the poor and the middle class, while proposing a new tax on the job-based health benefit plans that cover the majority of Americans.The result would be many more people without insurance and much greater exposure to medical bills for those who have coverage, according to an analysis of the plan that  Axios  and  Vox obtained .This approach isn’t surprising.  Ryan’s philosophical idol  is the “objectivist” writer Ayn Rand, and he believes that high taxation of the wealthy is morally wrong and that the government should provide far less help to the indigent than it currently does. McConnell has a more flexible ideology, but he’s never had much of an appetite for preserving big government programs when he can kill them instead.The White House, though, is another story. Trump certainly isn’t an orthodox conservative, and he’s barely a Republican in the traditional sense.On the one hand, Trump chose Price, an ideological conservative, to be secretary of health and human services. And at various points during his candidacy and the presidential transition, he embraced reforms consistent with Ryan’s.On the other hand, Trump also keeps pledging “ insurance for everybody,”  a pledge utterly inconsistent with Ryan’s and Price’s proposals, and with decades of GOP health care policies.The simplest explanation for the inconsistency is ignorance ― Trump doesn’t really understand the trade-offs of health policy, and can’t be bothered to learn. His comment at the White House Monday supports that theory.But it’s also possible that Trump has genuinely mixed feelings. The abstract notion of snatching away health coverage from millions of poor and working-class families may not trouble the president’s sleep, but some of those folks are his voters, and they’re growing increasingly worried that when Republicans promised to repeal Obamacare, it meant  their  Obamacare, too .We also know that  Trump’s advisers are divided , as The Washington Post reported over the weekend.Vice President Mike Pence and others are urging the president to forge ahead with repeal. But chief strategist Steve Bannon, senior policy adviser Stephen Miller, presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner (whose brother runs a health insurance company) and National Economic Council Chairman Gary Cohn don’t want the president mired in the health care mess, according to the report.This is the dawning realization that repeal is politically riskier than GOP lawmakers allowed themselves to acknowledge during the past eight years.The health care fight is also sucking up time and political capital, creating higher hurdles for Trump and the GOP to advance the rest of their agenda, including tax cuts for the rich and infrastructure spending.The question is whether at some point Trump decides to steer this debate in one direction or the other. He may not. He may just remain hands-off, or continue to send conflicting signals.  But at some point the fate of reform may hang on his actions ― whether it’s giving up, lobbying legislators or, ultimately, signing a bill. In other words, he can’t duck the choice forever.And so it will be interesting to see whether, on Tuesday night, Trump decides to start weighing in more forcefully. Like the man said: It’s complicated.Sam Stein contributed reporting.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/message-to-senate-dems-vote-no-on-ben-carson_us_58b486c1e4b0780bac2c55dd?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Message To Senate Dems: Vote ‘No’ On Ben CarsonAt the end of last month, the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee voted to approve the nomination of Dr. Ben Carson for the position of U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Among the Senators who cast a “yes” vote to recommend the nomination for consideration by the full Senate were Democrats Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.As far as I’m concerned, their votes were inexcusable. How any self-described progressive could put their seal of approval on such a dangerous, right-wing nominee is a betrayal of progressive values. At least Brown could argue that he needed to vote “yes” for political reasons ― he’s up for re-election next year in a state that went heavily for Trump last November.Warren, however, tried to make the argument in response to the fierce criticism about her vote that you sometimes have to “pick and choose your battles”― that you can’t just oppose every single nominee because they were nominated by Donald Trump.I agree that opposition just for the sake of opposition is a bad idea. Her argument, however, might be more effective if she were talking about a less controversial nominee. Ben Carson is among the most extreme, risky, reckless nominees that Donald Trump has put forward since he won the election- and that’s saying something.First of all, Ben Carson has no experience in the areas of housing or urban development, except that he grew up in Detroit, one of the “inner cities” that Trump talked about as “a complete disaster” during his campaign. Not only that, but when there was speculation earlier on that Carson might instead be nominated to run the Health and Human Services Department, his spokesman came out and said that Dr. Carson felt “his background didn’t prepare him to run a federal agency”.No, I’m not kidding; that’s the actual quote. Ironic, considering that Carson ran to be President of the United States, but now apparently feels he’s unqualified to serve in a lower-level cabinet position?I guess Dr. Carson is under the impression that the Department of HUD is somehow less complicated or difficult to run than HHS, but he is sorely mistaken. HUD, in fact, is one of the most complex departments to run in the entire federal government ― its offices are spread out across the country and it has an annual budget of over 30 billion dollars. Some of the most vital programs that millions of Americans rely on are administered by the Housing and Urban Development Department, many of which Carson vowed he would try to cut and/or eliminate if he became President.At a time when the shortage of affordable housing stock in this country is more severe than ever (and I know, having served on the Board of Directors of the West Hollywood Community Housing Corporation for the last two years), and millions upon millions of Americans are spending more than half of their income on rent each month, we need to be expanding these programs, not cutting or eliminating them. Ben Carson is the very opposite of the kind of person we need to be running HUD; he is an existential threat to the department and we as progressives and as Democrats must do everything in our power to prevent him from taking office.I understand Senator Warren’s position that we need to pick and choose our battles carefully. But Carson is definitely one on which we should fight, and very hard. I strongly urge all Democratic Senators (including my Senator, Kamala Harris!) to please vote against him when his nomination is voted on by the full Senate. The vote on this nomination should be considered a litmus test when it comes to the progressive bona fides of each Democratic Senator- it doesn’t get any more important or fundamental to our values and principles than this decision.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/mnuchin-entitlement-programs_us_58b34746e4b060480e08dcd3?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Mnuchin Vows No Cuts To U.S. Entitlement Programs — For NowU.S. President Donald Trump’s first budget proposal will spare big social welfare programs such as Social Security and Medicare from any cuts, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview broadcast on Sunday.Mnuchin said Trump would also use a major policy speech to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night to preview some elements of his sweeping plans to cut taxes for the middle class, simplify the tax system and make American companies more globally competitive with lower rates and changes to encourage U.S. manufacturing.Speaking on Fox News Channel’s “Sunday Morning Futures” program, Mnuchin, who has acknowledged that tax reform is his top policy priority, said the budget plan would not seek cuts to federal benefits programs known as “entitlements.”“We are not touching those now. So don’t expect to see that as part of this budget, OK,” Mnuchin said of the programs, according to a transcript provided by Fox. “We are very focused on other aspects and that’s what’s very important to us. And that’s the president’s priority.”Trump during his election campaign promised not to cut Social Security, Medicare healthcare for seniors nor Medicaid healthcare for the poor. Preservation of these programs, coupled with a middle-class tax cut, would aid the retirees and working class Americans who make up a significant portion of Trump’s political base.In a transcript of the Fox News Channel interview, Mnuchin said Trump will be “touching on tax reform” in his speech. Mnuchin said the plan would cut the number of tax brackets and “create a level playing field for U.S. companies to be able to compete in the world.”But Wall Street, which has sent stocks to record highs on anticipation of Trump’s tax cut plans, has grown impatient and could react negatively to a lack of substantive details about the plan in Trump’s speech, financial analysts said.With both chambers of the U.S. Congress in Republican hands, Trump has the potential to enact major elements of his legislative agenda.But divisions with the Republican Party over the approach on Obamacare and taxes could prove to be an obstacle. Some Republican lawmakers have urged Trump to lay out more specifics on his policy plans, saying that more White House engagement is needed to build momentum in Congress for his agenda.‘RECIPROCAL TAX’Mnuchin offered little new information and said key tax plan elements were not yet settled. He said Trump was looking at a “reciprocal tax” that would help create more trade parity with other countries. Trump administration officials have complained that many countries charge value-added taxes on imports while exempting exports from taxation.But Mnuchin again said he was still “studying very carefully” a House Republican border tax adjustment plan that would levy a 20 percent tax on imports to encourage more U.S.-based production and exports. That plan aims to raise more than $1 trillion in revenue over a decade to offset lower tax rates for businesses.“There are certain aspects that the president likes about the concept of a border-adjusted tax, there are certain aspects that he’s very concerned about,” Mnuchin said.He added that the Trump administration would work with the House of Representatives and Senate to craft “a combined plan that takes the best of all of this when we bring it forward.”In a comment suggesting that Trump’s budget and tax plans may use aggressive revenue assumptions, Mnuchin said the administration “fundamentally believes in dynamic scoring,” a budget calculation method that assumes that a lower tax burden boosts revenues by encouraging economic activity.The Congressional Budget Office has previously used mainly “static” scoring methods that assume very conservative economic effects of tax and budget changes.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/hands-off-medicare-and-medicaid-tour-find-three-republicans_us_58b1b542e4b0658fc20f95cd?utm_hp_ref=us-senate
Hands Off Medicare And Medicaid Tour: Find Three Republicans To Vote NoNobody voted to destroy Medicare or Medicaid. Candidate Donald Trump contrasted himself with other Republicans, and aligned himself with the overwhelming majority of the American people, by opposing all cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. But it's far from certain that President Donald Trump will keep his campaign promise.Only days after Trump's election, House Speaker Paul Ryan announced plans to destroy Medicare and instead give seniors an insufficient "voucher" to purchase insurance on the private market. Even though 55 and 60 year olds often can't purchase affordable insurance since they're too "expensive" to be profitable for the corporations, Ryan thinks putting 90 year olds on the private marketplace is a great idea.Trump hasn't said a word (or tweet) in protest of Ryan's horrific plans. Instead, he appointed Ryan's House colleagues and close allies Tom Price and Mick Mulvaney to key cabinet posts. Both men have a long record of working to destroy Medicare and Medicaid. We are going to keep putting pressure on Trump to keep the promises he's made to the American people, and if the Ryan plan makes his approval ratings plunge even lower than they already are, maybe he will. But it's clear that he can't be trusted. Medicare and Medicaid need another line of defense.That's why we've launched the Hands Off Medicare and Medicaid Tour around the country. The goal of the tour is to find three Republican Senators to vote against any reconciliation bill that cuts Medicare or Medicaid. Ryan has already made it clear that he plans to jam through his plan to gut Medicare and Medicaid using reconciliation—a process that Democrats can’t filibuster—meaning it only requires a simple majority. There are currently 52 Republican Senators. So three Republicans are needed to defeat these attacks on our Medicare and Medicaid. This may be an uphill fight, but a winnable one - it's already clear that Ryan's plans are far less popular with Senate Republicans than they are in the House. Sen. Murkowski (R-AK) recently said she will almost certainly not vote to destroy Medicaid.The Hands off Medicare and Medicaid tour is headlined by Jon Bauman, best known as “Bowzer” from the hit TV series and musical group Sha Na Na. We started in Maine at a packed house in Lewiston, ME followed by another packed house in Portland, ME. One gentleman snowshoed through the snowstorm to get there! At both of the stops, crowds of seniors made calls to Sen. Susan Collins’ (R-ME) office to demand she pledge to vote no on any reconciliation bill that includes Medicare or Medicaid. We visited Sen. Collins’ Portland office alongside her constituents to make sure Collins’ office heard directly from her bosses. We have partnered with organized groups on the ground in Maine as well as our key activists to keep the phone calls and office visits rolling in.ANDREE KEHN/SUN JOURNALBowzer in Lewiston, MaineThis month, we traveled to Arizona and teamed up with a group of fantastic retired teachers from the Arizona Education Association, the Alliance for Retired Americans and local seniors and activists for stops in Phoenix and Tucson. We had massive turnout of activists preparing to send a clear and unrelenting message to Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake (both R-AZ): Hands off Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security!Bowzer with Julie Horwin, President of the Arizona Education Association Retirees.We heard dozens of stories from people who would be impacted directly by the destruction of Medicaid and Medicare and we joined them to visit McCain’s Phoenix and Flake’s Tucson offices. This is only the beginning. We are going to keep traveling all around the country, speaking to rooms filled with citizen activists, and spreading our message, including in song: “Bom-ba-ba-bom-ba-bom-ba-bom-bom, Hands off Medicare!”
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/mnuchin-white-house-unveil-biggest-tax-cut-history-n751316
White House Unveils ‘Biggest Tax Cut’ in HistoryWhite House officials on Wednesday unveiled a dramatic new tax reform plan that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is calling "the biggest tax cut" in history aimed at jump starting small businesses and putting more money in the pockets of middle-class Americans.Mnuchin and National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn laid out a "broad brush overview" of the plan to reporters, cautioning that they are still negotiating many of the details with members of Congress."What this is about is creating jobs and creating economic growth. And that's why massive tax cuts and massive tax reform and simplifying the system is what we're going to do," Mnuchin told reporters in the White House briefing room.It also will eliminate a number of deductions used by the wealthiest Americans to scale back their dues, while doubling the standard deduction for married couples to $24,000.The 15 percent corporate tax rate would be a drastic cut from current rate of 35 percent. Mnuchin and Cohn dismissed questions about how the plan could benefit Trump's real estate firms, saying the plan will spur growth for all sectors of the economy."We are now one of the least competitive countries in the world when it comes to corporate tax. So tax reform is long overdue," Cohn said.Related: Here's What We Know About Those Tax CutsThe broad outline of the plan resembles many of the promises Trump made as a candidate.But the major tax overhaul will be unlikely to have any impact on the status of the release of the president's own taxes, which Mnuchin said Trump has "no intention" of making public.Tax reform represents a major test for Trump's presidency just shy of his 100th day in office. The president so far has few legislative accomplishments, and a stalled tax plan would be another major blow after House Republicans failed to replace the Affordable Care Act.One potential sticking point will be how to pay for the plan amid concerns over the rising the deficit. Officials cautioned the details are still being worked out, but said a boost in economic growth will help offset a growing deficit.Earlier in the day the treasury secretary said Congress and the White House are on the same page,"We've been briefed on what they're going to do and it's basically along exactly the same lines that we want to go. ... We see this as progress is being made and we're moving and getting on the same page," House Speaker Paul Ryan said earlier in the day.Ryan, Senate Leader Mitch McConnell, and other Republican leaders released a statement after the press conference saying the plan outlined by the White House will serve as "critical guideposts" to fixing the nation's tax code.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/gop-health-care-plan-gets-backing-freedom-caucus-after-changes-n751356
GOP Health Care Plan Gets Backing From Freedom Caucus After ChangesThe once-sidelined Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare received a shot of momentum Wednesday as a group of conservative House Republicans came out in support of the bill after proposed changes to the underlying legislation.The announcement by the Freedom Caucus changes the dynamics of the discussion and could provide enough votes for House Republicans to pass the measure."While the revised version still does not fully repeal Obamacare, we are prepared to support it to keep our promise to the American people to lower healthcare costs," the Freedom Caucus, a group of three-dozen members, said in a statement.House Conservatives Now Support Revised Health Care Bill  2:26autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogBut while some conservative members of Congress giving support to the measure, the proposed changes are also raising new concerns about some of the promises the party has made about guaranteed, affordable coverage and even how members of Congress themselves would be treated.And moderate Republicans are expressing concern about the changes that they say could increase costs and limit coverage options for those who are sicker.Still, Republican leadership says the momentum is a good sign in the prospects of the bill's passage."The good news is a lot of really good progress has been made during these last two weeks. A lot more members are focused on getting to where we need to be," said Rep. Steve Scalise, the third-ranking Republican in the House responsible for counting votes. "And so we're not going to stop working until we get that done."Rep. Patrick McHenry, R-N.C. a deputy whip, sounded optimistic Wednesday afternoon about the bill's imminent passage, saying "It's a question of timing."But the timing for a vote is fluid. Republican leadership won't bring it up for a vote until they are confident is has enough support to pass. A vote could happen as early as this week, said senior Republican aides, but others say it could happen next week.The new proposed amendment, authored by Rep. Tom MacArthur, R-N.J., is an attempt to appease some of the conservatives by allowing states to get a waiver for regulations on insurance companies that protect patients, such as equal-cost coverage for those with pre-existing conditions and a robust benefits package known as essential health benefits, but that also, they say, increase the cost of coverage. States must be show that people with high health care costs will be covered, either through a high-risk pool or a federal cost-sharing program."I believe that we're going to get to 216 or beyond," said Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C, chair of the Freedom Caucus, which was largely responsible for sinking the first attempt at health care last month. He was referring to the number of Republicans it will take to pass a health care bill in the House.Rep. Scott Desjarlais, R-Tennessee, a member of the Freedom Caucus and was opposed to the bill, said this new change is productive."I think it looks pretty good," he told reporters Monday night.And Rep. Dave Brat, R-Virginia, who was also a critic, said that he is now "looking forward" to voting for the bill.But in an attempt to appeal to conservative, the new amendment back-tracks on a Republican campaign promise to keep coverage for those with pre-existing conditions. The measure could allow insurance companies to charge people with pre-existing conditions more, a component likely to be unpopular among moderates, especially those from Democratic or swing districts.Rep. Mike Coffman, R-Colo., who was supportive of the bill last month, said he's now concerned about the changes."I made it very clear … that I'm going to protect pre-existing conditions," Coffman told reporters. "This is a fairly complicated proposal so I gotta review it.""I am a no," said Rep. Leonard Lance, R-N.J., after the proposed changes.Pennsylvania Republican Rep. Charlie Dent, told reporters of the changes: "It doesn't address my underlying concerns."The latest round of negotiations is also further splitting the Republican conference. Some moderates are frustrated that there's been so much focus on conservatives' concerns. And conservatives have been frustrated that they've been blamed for the bill's first-round failure.Dent said this conservatives' support of the amendment is an attempt at "blame-shifting.""It means that a lot of them were taking a lot of heat for the failure of the bill," Dent said.Meanwhile, conservatives are labeling their moderate colleagues as "liberal" or "left-of-center.""Unless there is major dissent by some of the moderate, or really left-of-center members ... I think this will probably make a difference," said Rep. Trent Franks, R-Ariz.The measure ran into a new problem just hours after the text of the legislation was released, however. The amendment protects members of Congress and their employees from those waivers on pre-existing conditions and essential health benefits. In other words it keeps some of the most popular parts of Obamacare for members of Congress.The development was first reported by Vox Wednesday morning and House Republicans immediately addressed it in their closed-door conference meeting.They emerged from the meeting insisting that, that because of strict Senate rules to pass the health care bill on a mechanism known as reconciliation, the House bill must retain the protection for members of Congress and the Senate will have to fix it once they get the bill.Republican leadership has said that they will schedule a vote for the bill once they have the votes. A vote is not currently scheduled.This amendment is part of a larger bill that would unwind Obamacare and all of its taxes, including the tax on couples making more than $250,000. In its place, the American Health Care Act gives tax credits to people who purchase health insurance outside of an employer based on age instead of income. It would also end the Medicaid expansion and cap the number of Medicaid recipients based on the state's population.Democrats are already preparing attacks on Republicans for supporting this new version of the bill."Removing protections for people with pre-existing conditions will go down in infamy as one of the most heartless acts of this Republican Congress," said Tyler Law, spokesman for the DCCC, the campaign arm of Congressional Democrats. "As proof of the repeal bill's devastating impact, Republican Members of Congress are exempting themselves from the punishment they are willing to inflict on their constituents."And not all Republicans are on board, including, Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Kentucky."I went from a hell no to a no," Massie said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-order-review-protected-federal-lands-n751021
Trump Orders Review of Protected Federal LandsPresident Donald Trump signed an executive order Wednesday ordering a review of the status of tens of thousands of acres of federally protected public lands — a controversial move likely to draw fire from environmental groups and others.The president, joined at the Department of the Interior by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Vice President Mike Pence, called out past "abuse" of the Antiquities Act, which gives the president unilateral authority to designate national monuments.Trumps Signs Executive Order to Review National Monuments, Protected Lands  1:23autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"The Antiquities Act does not give the federal government unlimited power to lock up millions of acres of land and water and it's time we ended this abusive practice," the president said.The order focuses on the past 20 years of national monument designations outlined in the Antiquities Act and spanning more than 100,000 acres, administration officials said.In the crosshairs: the controversial Bears Ears National Monument — which Trump said he's heard is "beautiful."The Utah monument, which was designated by President Obama, includes 1.3 million acres of land and will be the central focus of the interim review due back to the president within 45 days, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke told reporters in a briefing on Tuesday evening.Republican critics of Bears Ears have called for the federal designation to be rescinded and for the land to be given back to the state.Bears Ears derives its name from two rock cliffs that resemble ears on a bear's head. It holds sacred cultural value to Native American peoples and includes archaeological sites.In signing the order, Trump said he was directing Zinke "to end these abuses and return control to the people — the people of Utah, the people of all of the states, the people of the United States.""Everyday we are going to continue pushing ahead with our reform agenda to put the American people back in charge of their government and their lives," he said.The fear on the part of some environmentalists and Native American groups and administration critics regarding the review is that it could be a step toward rescinding or altering their designation as federally protected monuments, including possibly reducing the size of the protected lands, and that it could open up the territories to exploitation by the oil and gas industries.Bears Ears "was the first opportunity that American citizens had for Native American tribes, not one tribe, but five with support from other federally recognized tribes, asking to preserve and protect this land," Shaun Chapoose, chairman of the Ute Indian Tribe Business Committee told the Salt Lake Tribune and other publications in a recent conference call. "This is troubling for all Americans. Once you destroy these types of resources, these habitats, these places that are untouched, you can never go back."Tribal Leaders Outraged over Executive Order to Undermine #BearsEars Monument https://t.co/9talwj1XU3 #StandWithBearsEars! @SecretaryZinke pic.twitter.com/VqNvdPXFyJ— Protect Bears Ears (@savebearsears) April 26, 2017Environmental groups were similarly concerned."Leave it to Trump to take aim at an American tradition and principle that is beloved by bipartisan communities — public lands, waters and monuments," Greenpeace's U.S. senior climate and energy campaigner Diana Best said in a statement. "By potentially rolling back safeguards for lands and waters that are currently protected from destructive development for generations to come, Trump is carving up this beautiful country into as many corporate giveaways for the oil and gas industry as possible. People in this country who cannot afford the membership fee at Mar-a-Lago want safe water they can drink and public lands for their communities to enjoy."Zinke affirmed Tuesday, as he did during his Senate confirmation hearings, his opposition to the sale or transfer of public lands to states or private groups, and he pushed back on arguments the review could set the stage for an assault by the oil and gas industries as a "false narrative."Blaming a "polarized" media for the claim, Zinke stressed "the core of this is to make sure public has a voice."While the president has the ability to designate public lands as national monuments, it's unclear whether the Antiquities Act allows for the White House to rescind or diminish the size of previously designated monuments.RELATED: Trump's border wall catastrophic for the environmentMore likely, the administration could make the case for trimming the size of the national monuments — something Zinke alluded to during the briefing.He highlighted a portion of the 1906 law that said the president should "designate the smallest area compatible with proper care and management of the objects to be protected."That the average size of monuments designations has increased over the years "should be worthy of notice," Zinke pointed out.Introducing the vice president Wednesday, he was clear about how he saw the executive order's function. "his executive order does not remove any monuments. And this executive order does not weaken any environmental protections on any public lands," he said.In keeping with the administration's interest in using executive orders to keep campaign promises as Trump nears his 100th day in office on Saturday, the Interior Secretary said the review is, "another example of the president doing exactly what he's said in his campaign promises."Zinke estimated that about 30 monuments will be reviewed.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/sound-fury-not-much-action-trump-s-noisy-first-100-n751801
Sound and Fury, But Not Much Action in Trump’s Noisy First 100 DaysIn Trump they trust? Voters weigh in on president's first 100 days  5:20autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogSound and Fury, But Not Much Action in Trump's Noisy First 100 DaysYesterday — President Trump's 97th day in office — was maybe the most instructive yet of his early tenure. Consider all of the news from Wednesday:The White House said it was unveiling the "biggest tax cut ever";It bussed over the entire U.S. Senate to the White House for a classified briefing on North Korea;Politico reported that the Trump White House was considering an executive order withdrawing from NAFTA;The conservative House Freedom Caucus said it was supporting the House health-care plan after the crafting of a new amendment to change the legislation;And Trump told the Washington Examiner he was "absolutely" considering splitting up the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.But here is the reality behind those developments:That "biggest tax cut ever" was just a single sheet of paper with no details behind it (conservative economist Peter Morici told NPR that it's what a 12-year-old Newt Gingrich would have asked Santa Claus for Christmas);Senate Foreign Relations Chair Bob Corker said the White House briefing on North Korea was just "OK," per NBC's Frank Thorp. (Corker: "It was an OK briefing." Q: What do you mean, you didn't really learn much? Corker: "I—it was OK…");Late last night, the White House said that "Trump agreed not to terminate NAFTA at this time," and that the leaders of Canada and Mexico said they would work to renegotiate the treaty;While House Republicans have picked up additional votes for their health-care legislation, it's unclear whether they have the 216 needed for passage (and the Senate seems to be an even harder pull);And if you think Trump is going to be able to split up the 9th Circuit, we have a bridge to sell you…A lot of sound. A lot of fury. But so little real action (with the possible exception of the health-care news). And that's so emblematic of Trump's first 100 days — sizzle but little steak. Indeed, yesterday seemed like a Trump campaign speech ("I'm going to give you the biggest tax cut ever"; "Believe me, I'm tearing up NAFTA"; "Lock up the 9th Circuit"). Diehard supporters eat it up, and it makes it SEEM like the White House is bustling with real activity. For someone who said the first 100 days is a "ridiculous" benchmark, it's pretty clear he cares a lot about the optics of these first three-plus months in office.And here's another development as the White House and Congress work to keep the government open: "The White House has made a second major concession to Democrats in the final stages of negotiations on a critical spending bill, paving the way for a deal to avert government shutdown," NBC's Leigh Ann Caldwell writes. "The White House said Wednesday that it would drop its opposition to a subsidy for low-income people in the Affordable Care Act, known as Cost Sharing Reductions, a funding stream that the Trump administration had threatened to stop. The agreement removes a politically toxic issue that was threatening to hold up negotiations with only two days left until government funding runs out on Friday at midnight."Seven takeaways on Trump's tax proposalPer NBC's Benjy Sarlin:It's only a loose outlineIt's a lot like Trump's campaign planIt's bigPeople like Trump would benefit a lotTrump's tax returns will be an issueIt drops a critical House GOP idea (the border adjustment tax)Procedural rules could make it hard to pass.Mexico's "Hillary Clinton" rips Trump over wallNBC's Alex Seitz-Wald: "President Donald Trump's border wall may not be going anywhere right now and one of Mexico's leading candidates in the presidential elections told NBC News she wants to make sure the 'useless' wall stays that way. 'It's a false solution to a false problem,' Margarita Zavala said of the wall through a translator in a phone interview Wednesday. 'The wall does not help in any way the relationship between the two countries. The wall is pulling us apart.'" More: "Zavala, a former member of Congress and ex-first lady (she is married to Felipe Calderon, a former president), is expected to be the nominee of one of Mexico's two main political parties, the center-right National Action Party (PAN), for the country's July 2018 presidential election. She has been referred to as the "Hillary Clinton of Mexico" in media reports."What were other presidents doing on April 27?Barack Obama addresses concerns about swine flu, saying that the country should be on alert but that the situation is not "a cause for alarm"George W. Bush's administration declines comment after the president's daughter is cited for alcohol possession by a minorBill Clinton's administration dismisses speculation that NAFTA is in danger, promising to pass the free-trade agreement by the end of the yearGeorge H.W. Bush resumes his anti-drug campaign with a speech at an international drug conference in FloridaRonald Reagan's economic plan regains momentum after House Speaker Tip O'Neill says it will likely pass the Democratic-controlled HouseA new NBC News poll shows Jimmy Carter's popularity dropped by double digits after he announced his energy program
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/first-read-s-morning-clips-examining-trump-s-tax-plan-n751791
First Read’s Morning Clips: Examining Trump’s Tax PlanBenjy Sarlin sums up seven takeaways from Trump's tax proposal.More, from the Washington Post: "Trump's proposal now poses key tests for both parties. Republicans, who for years chided President Barack Obama about any plan to raise the deficit, must decide whether to back a plan that many budget experts calculate will add to record levels of government debt… Democrats, meanwhile, must decide whether to negotiate with an unpopular president who is threatening to pull away tax revenue that pays for many of their cherished social programs."The New York Times writes that winners from the plan include businesses with high tax rates, very high income earners and Donald Trump himself.With the new plan, Trump is promising to do what Ronald Reagan could not, the Washington Post notes: Create a tax plan that stimulates so much growth that it pays for itself.Can it actually pass? The Wall Street Journal: "Unless Mr. Trump can attract votes from Democrats—which appears unlikely—the plan must comply with legislative procedures that allow for a party-line vote in the Senate, where Republicans have 52 seats out of 100. The key to those procedures: Any tax plan can't increase budget deficits beyond a 10-year period. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget said Wednesday that the plan would cost about $5.5 trillion in lost revenue over a decade. Those limitations could lead Republicans to make some or all of the tax cuts temporary to limit the long-run fiscal effect."Meanwhile: What's going on with health care? Leigh Ann Caldwell: "The once-sidelined Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare received a shot of momentum Wednesday as a group of conservative House Republicans came out in support of the bill after proposed changes to the underlying legislation. The announcement by the Freedom Caucus changes the dynamics of the discussion and could provide enough votes for House Republicans to pass the measure."But, as POLITICO notes, the Senate might not be on board.Caldwell also reports on the latest maneuvering to avoid a government shutdown tomorrow.After threatening to pull out of NAFTA, the Trump administration now says it will begin talks to renegotiate the agreement but not to cancel it.Speaking of promises: Jane Timm keeps track of the promises Trump has made — but not kept so far.Alex Seitz-Wald speaks to "Mexico's Hillary Clinton" about Donald Trump's wall.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/white-house-trump-says-u-s-will-not-withdraw-nafta-n751731
White House: Trump Says U.S. Will Not Withdraw From NAFTAWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump on Wednesday told the leaders of Mexico and Canada that he will not pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, just hours after administration officials said he was considering a draft executive order to do just that.The White House made the surprise announcement in a read-out of calls between Trump, Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau."President Trump agreed not to terminate NAFTA at this time and the leaders agreed to proceed swiftly, according to their required internal procedures, to enable the renegotiation of the NAFTA deal to the benefit of all three countries," said the White House.Trump said he believes "the end result will make all three countries stronger and better."Trump now says US won't pull out of NAFTA after all  2:53autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogThe announcement came hours after administration officials said Trump was considering a draft executive order to withdraw the U.S. from the deal — though administration officials cautioned it was just one of a number of options being discussed by the president and his staff.Some saw the threat as posturing by Trump to gain leverage over Mexico and Canada as he tries to negotiate changes to the deal. Trump railed against the decades-old trade deal during his campaign, describing it as a "disaster."Senior White House officials had spent recent days discussing steps that could be taken to start the process of renegotiating or withdrawing from NAFTA before the end of Trump's first 100 days in office, according to a person familiar with the president's thinking.But the person, along with an administration official, who both spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss internal deliberations, had said a number of options remained on the table, and stressed discussions are ongoing about the best way to proceed.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer declined to comment on the order, which was first reported by Politico."The president has made addressing the problems of NAFTA a priority throughout the campaign, and once the president makes a decision about how he wants to address that, we'll let you know," he said.Related: Trump Blames Canada in Latest Trade TiffThe administration appeared to be divided Wednesday over how and when to proceed, as they balanced a newfound cautiousness with the desire to rack up accomplishments before Trump's 100th day on the job.Some were gunning for Trump to sign a draft order this week, while others were weighing the complications surrounding withdrawing from or renegotiating the deal without Congress fully onboard. The debate played out in the press Wednesday as some outlets quoted officials insisting the signing was imminent, while other officials dismissed the reports as "just a rumor.""My practice is to comment on things we've actually done or are doing as opposed to commenting on rumors," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told reporters at an unrelated White House briefing Wednesday evening.Trump could withdraw from NAFTA — but he would have to give six months' notice. And it is unclear what would happen next. The law Congress passed to enact the trade pact might remain in place, forcing Trump to wrangle with lawmakers and raising questions about the president's authority to raise tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports.The decision came days after the administration announced it would slap hefty tariffs on softwood lumber being imported from Canada. Trump has also been railing against changes in Canadian milk product pricing that he says are hurting the American dairy industry.Related: Trump Signs Order at Low Wage Foreign HiresTrump told The Associated Press in an interview last week that he planned to either renegotiate or terminate NAFTA, which he and other critics blame for wiping out U.S. manufacturing jobs because it allowed companies to move factories to Mexico to take advantage of low-wage labor."I am very upset with NAFTA. I think NAFTA has been a catastrophic trade deal for the United States, trading agreement for the United States. It hurts us with Canada, and it hurts us with Mexico," he said.Trump Tax Plan Outline Unveiled by White House  2:57autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogAnother senior White House official declined to comment on "rumors" of specific actions. But that official said NAFTA has been a top priority for the president since day one and said the administration has been working on it since taking office. That person also spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the administration's thinking.The Trump administration last month submitted a vague set of guidelines to Congress for renegotiating NAFTA, disappointing those who were expecting Trump to demand a major overhaul.In an eight-page draft letter to Congress, acting U.S. Trade Representative Stephen Vaughn wrote that the administration intended to start talking with Mexico and Canada about making changes to the pact, which took effect in 1994.The letter spelled out few details and stuck with broad principles. But it appeared to keep much of the existing agreement in place, including private tribunals that allow companies to challenge national laws on the grounds that they inhibit trade — a provision that critics say allows companies to get around environmental and labor laws.Reports Wednesday of the possible move drew objections from some in Congress, including Sen. John McCain of Arizona."Withdrawing from #NAFTA would be a disaster for #Arizona jobs & economy," he tweeted. "@POTUS shouldn't abandon this vital trade agreement."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/elections/q-top-mexican-presidential-candidate-trump-hillary-clinton-n751671
Q & A: Top Mexican Presidential Candidate on Trump, Hillary ClintonMargarita Zavala, a former first lady of Mexico and member of Congress, is a leading candidate in her country's 2018 presidential election, which President Donald Trump is already influencing.Zavala, who is married to former President Felipe Calderón and referred to as the "Hillary Clinton of Mexico" in local media reports, spoke with NBC News about Trump's "useless" border wall, how Trump turned Mexicans into a "convenient enemy," and whether she thinks Michelle Obama should run for public office. The election will take place in July of next year.NBCNews.com: You and others have said Mexico won't pay for President Trump's border wall, but he tweeted again this week that Mexico will "eventually...in some form" pay?Zavala: We will never, never pay for the wall. In Mexico, we have always talked about our lack of agreement with the wall. What he's proposing is a false solution to a false problem.NBCNews.com: Why do you think Trump wants a wall then?Zavala: What Donald Trump has done is create an enemy. Mexicans have served as a convenient enemy to rally his supporters. But the wall is useless. Net migration is negative, it's not really an issue. And more importantly for us, the wall does not help in any way help the relationship between the two countries. The wall is pulling us apart.NBCNews.com: After being critical of Trump, how would you work together with him if elected?A: The U.S. and Mexico have a living and very powerful relationship. We have the most active border in the world. Our bilateral trade is among the largest in the world. We could talk about security, the environment, energy, electricity — there's a lot of issues that we have in common and we need to learn how to live together.But the U.S. has to decide: What kind of a relationship does it want with Mexico? I think Donald Trump and the United States have a lot to lose if we don't get along, so it's time to decide how we're going to conduct our relationship in the future.NBCNews.com: What do you think of comparisons between you and Hillary Clinton?Zavala: There are some similarities, but the two countries are very different. I think life has prepared me to lead this country to a new place, farther than any previous government has taken it.NBCNews.com: You spent time with Michelle Obama when you visited Washington as first lady. Would you like to see her run for political office?Zavala: I had the opportunity to personally know and work with two U.S. presidents from both parties. And I had a personal relationship with Michelle. I think she's a great leader and a great person, and she'll know what to do in time. But for me, I'm focused on Mexico.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/democrats-vs-trump/mexico-s-hillary-clinton-rips-trump-over-useless-wall-n751666
Mexico’s ‘Hillary Clinton’ Rips Trump Over ‘Useless’ WallPresident Donald Trump's border wall may not be going anywhere right now and one of Mexico's leading candidates in the presidential elections told NBC News she wants to make sure the "useless" wall stays that way."It's a false solution to a false problem," Margarita Zavala said of the wall through a translator in a phone interview Wednesday. "The wall does not help in any way the relationship between the two countries. The wall is pulling us apart."Trump's proposed wall, she said, is more about scapegoating Mexicans for political gain than for U.S. security."What Donald Trump has done is create an enemy. Mexicans have served as a convenient enemy to rally his supporters," Zavala said, dismissing his comments at the start of his campaign about Mexican rapists and murders as "hate speech."Trump is already shaping up to be a major issue in the campaign.This week, the American president reiterated that Mexico will "eventually" pay for the wall "in some form," but Zavala didn't even wait for an aide to translate that question before responding. "Never, never. We will never pay for the wall," she said.While careful to not to attack Trump personally and to say the U.S.-Mexico relationship is much bigger than the president, she said Trump has strained relations between the neighbors."The U.S. has to decide: What kind of a relationship does it want with Mexico? I think Donald Trump and the United States have a lot to lose if we don't get along, so it's time to decide how we're going to conduct our relationship in the future," she said.Trump thwarted one former first lady's goal of becoming her country's first female president last year, and he might help do it again next year in Mexico.Obrador, a former mayor of Mexico City, mixes fiery left-wing populism with nationalism, troubling some American observers."We are running the risk that a strong anti-U.S. sentiment becomes an issue in the election and that may help one candidate. But I will stand by the idea that it serves both countries to have a very strong relationship," Zavala said.Mexico's current president, Enrique Peña Nieto, returned the traditionally dominant center-left Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) to power in 2012, after back-to-back victories by Zavala and Calderon's center-right PAN.Mexican presidents are limited to a single, six-year term, so Pena Nieto cannot run again. But corruption, his perceived softness on Trump, and other issues have damaged Pena Nieto's party's standing.Calderón, Zavala's husband, lead the country from 2006 to 2012. But his heavy-handed approach to drug cartels have made him controversial in Mexico.Zavala's has faced questions about whether she's running as "a second coming" of her unpopular husband, but she dismissed that criticism."I have my own career, I make my own decisions, and I am responsible for them," she said. "And I think that's been reflected both in the party and outside. People notice and that's why I have a very strong position in the polls."She once called Obrador a "misogynist" because he referred to her as "Felipe Calderon's wife."Clinton faced similar challenges last year and she said recently the misogyny was a factor in her loss to Trump.Zavala, a longtime women's right's activist like Clinton, has run in some of the same circles as the former Democratic presidential candidate, including when they both attended the 1995 World Conference on Women in Beijing, where Clinton gave her famous "women's rights are human rights" speech.But Zavala isn't interested in the comparison to Clinton."Of course, those issues have brought us together at various times, but really my interest is in Mexico," she said. "There are some similarities, but the two countries are very different."Zavala had a closer relationship with Michelle Obama, who was first lady at the same time as Zavala."I had a personal relationship with Michelle. I think she's a great leader and a great person," Zavala said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/promises-promises-what-trump-said-he-would-do-hasn-t-n748531
Promises, Promises: What Trump Said He Would Do but Hasn’tPresident Donald Trump has made little progress on some of his key campaign promises in his first 100 days as president.Of the 10 core goals for his presidency tracked by NBC News, Trump made progress on two, faltered on four, and did little or nothing on the rest.Trump's tangible progress is mostly confined to headline-grabbing executive orders that tackle parts of his promises from the campaign by undertaking regulatory or administrative reviews, or green lighting permits."I don't think there's any question that the president has done a significant amount on the issues that he put forward in the campaign," White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told reporters ahead of the 100-day mark, touting "a record number" of executive orders. "We are very proud."RELATED: Tracking Donald Trump's PromisesBut when it comes to the pledges that helped Trump get elected — the big-ticket items that require Congressional input like reforming immigration and revamping health care — the president has struggled to make a dent."He's issued executive orders in line with what he's said and appointments as well, but at the same time … to a remarkable degree, he doesn't feel his previous statements bind him to anything," presidential historian Michael Beschloss told NBC News.Here's where things stand:1. Promise: Create 25 million jobs, rebuild industry Status: Some direct action, progressJob creators have applauded Trump's "pro business" policies, and he's taken some action aimed at job creation through executive orders. He rolled back regulations on the coal industry and ordered federal agencies to rescind regulations that "unduly burden" domestic energy development. Sources in the coal industry say the jobs are unlikely to come back, though his actions may stave off further losses.Pres. Trump Says Coal Jobs Will Come Back. Is That Possible?  1:54autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogHe's blasted Canadian dairy farmers as a "disgrace" because their government-subsidized farms are charging low prices that undercut some American farmers, and he declared that the Canadian government's protection of its dairy industry through import tariffs and other measures is unfair.The president also ordered a review of foreign-worker visa programs in hopes of encouraging domestic corporations to hire more Americans, though the details of implementation are unclear; effects on the H1-B visa program won't be immediately known, as this year's visa process won't be affected.Trump has been quick to take credit for the state of the economy, including claiming credit for job gains that came under President Barack Obama. He's also celebrated the very monthly jobs reports he had suggested were fraudulent under the Obama administration.What's more, Trump's anecdotal claims of success have repeatedly been found to be exaggerated or had been announced months and sometimes years ahead of his presidency, like when he touted 900 new or saved jobs in Michigan that were part of a larger effort that saw a net loss of 200 jobs, or when he boasted of saving a Ford plant in Indiana that was not up for relocation.2. Promise: Unite a divided nation Status: No tangible progress or effortsTrump has not taken any direct action that we can evaluate here, and divisions he has decried — a record-high 77 percent of Americans said in late November they see the nation as divided — persist. His legislative attempts have yet to attract bipartisan support, and his executive orders rolling back protections for transgender students and women in workplaces have been criticized as divisive.The nation is sharply split in its view of Trump, too. Nearly 100 days in, more Americans disapprove of the president's leadership than approve of it: The most recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found 48 percent of Americans disapproving of his presidency, with 44 percent approving.He reiterated his goal to unite the nation in a February interview, but insisted the problem wasn't his fault."It's very important to me," he said in a press conference. "But this isn't Donald Trump that divided a nation. We went eight years with President Obama, and we went many years before President Obama. We lived in a divided nation. And I'm gonna try, I will do everything within my power to fix that."3. Promise: Deport undocumented immigrants, build the wall Status: Limited direct action, some early progressTrump has made some progress but the results are mixed: Deportations are up and southern border crossings are down, but the oft-promised "big, beautiful wall" between the U.S. and Mexico lacks funding. Despite Trump's promises on the campaign trail, Mexico says IT will not pay.Trump signed an executive order authorizing construction to begin, but the government has just $20 million — enough for about seven miles of the wall — in its coffers, according to ProPublica. House Speaker Paul Ryan's budget doesn't include the money for it either, signaling that the president may struggle to get his own party on board.Meanwhile, border apprehensions are down an unprecedented 70 percent over two months, according to Homeland Secretary John Kelly, who credits Trump's tough rhetoric for adding "enough confusion" to slow crossings.“ To a remarkable degree, [Trump] doesn’t feel his previous statements bind him to anything” —presidential historian Michael BeschlossDomestically, the administration is more aggressively deporting undocumented immigrants, with immigration arrests rising by a third in the first weeks of Trump's administration.While Trump promised that he'd focus on deporting criminals, the uptick in deportations is in part fueled by the removal of twice as many immigrants without criminal records as compared to last year, according to data obtained by the Washington Post. The president has not eliminated the deferred action programs for childhood arrivals and the parents of American citizens — earning criticism from his supporters.Trump also used an executive order to block federal funds from going to cities that limit federal immigration enforcement in their jurisdictions in January, but a judge put a temporary stop to it in late April, saying the president had overstepped his power in the order.4. Promise: Eradicate ISIS, make the U.S. safer Status: Some action, progress stalled or unknownDuring the campaign, Trump said a Muslim ban would make America safer from terrorist threats, later walking that back slightly before his election to be a ban on people traveling from certain countries.As president, he signed two executive orders temporarily banning refugees and citizens of several Muslim-majority nations from entering the United States, but both orders were quickly challenged on legal grounds. The first order's immediate implementation resulted in chaos at the nation's airports and borders before being stopped by the courts, while the second order was blocked by the courts before implementation.US Military Drops Its Largest Non-Nuclear Bomb Ever Used in Combat  1:52autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogTrump promised to "destroy" ISIS as a candidate, and his first public effort against the terror group was certainly a headline maker. The U.S.military dropped the so-called "Mother of All Bombs" in Afghanistan, where ISIS was believed to be establishing a new foothold in the border region near Pakistan. The impact on the terror group is still unknown.5. Promise: Repeal and replace Obamacare Status: Stalled actionTrump vowed a speedy repeal of his predecessor's signature health care law countless times during the campaign, promising to replace it with "something better" that would lower costs, wouldn't cut Medicaid or take away anyone's insurance.According to an analysis by the Congressional Budget Office and policy experts, the American Health Care Act, the House bill his Republican caucus proposed and Trump endorsed as a way to repeal much of the Affordable Care Act and replace it, would have broken all of those campaign promises. The CBO estimated that more people would lose their insurance under the GOP's proposed replacement than if the party simply repealed Obamacare, and moderate Republicans in the House refused to support it in part because the cuts to Medicaid were too deep. More conservative Republicans, meanwhile, were frustrated that it didn't repeal the law in its entirety. With Democrats united in their opposition and Republicans divided in their support, GOP leaders pulled the bill from consideration.Trump has said he's not done working to get a repeal bill — he has gone as far as to threaten to deprive the the ACA of funding in order to tank the existing program — and Republican members of Congress have publicly bounced around ideas for a compromise.Still, 100 days in, Obamacare remains law.6. Promise: "Drain the swamp" Status: Some action, much of it potentially detrimentalTrump promised that one of his first actions as president would be to propose a constitutional amendment imposing congressional term limits. He has failed to do so, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said it won't happen.The president used executive authority to institute some of the ethics reforms he promised from the campaign trail, imposing a lifetime ban on White House staffers lobbying for foreign governments and imposing a five-year ban on lobbying for domestic clients.“ I don’t think there’s any question that the president has done a significant amount on the issues that he put forward in the campaign” —White House Press Secretary Sean SpicerBut he also weakened an Obama-era lobbying restriction that barred lobbyists from taking a job within an agency they had tried to influence in the last two years, which gives lobbyists more power to take jobs in the Trump White House as soon as they quit from their lobbying roles.Meanwhile, the swamp has hardly vanished: Dozens of lobbyists were found in Trump administration hiring rolls by ProPublica, who also discovered three hires working on the issues they'd lobbied on previously, like Shahira Knight, a former Fidelity lobbyist who had lobbied on retirement and tax issues and now is the president's special assistant for tax and retirement policy. The White House may have given Knight a waiver, the investigative outlet reported, but there's no way to know because the administration has also ended the government's publication of those waivers through the Office of Government Ethics.7. Promise: Rebuild America with $1 trillion infrastructure plan Status: Little actionThe White House has not yet rolled out a plan to rebuild what Trump calls America's "crumbling" infrastructure.The president appointed a special assistant of infrastructure with D.J. Gribbin, who has a history brokering deals between private investors and governments seeking infrastructure investment, the very kind of deal Trump says is key to funding reform without growing the deficit. Congressional leaders and infrastructure experts say they're unsure just how feasible such funding mechanisms are; domestically, the nation has seen both successes and failures arise from such partnerships.Who Would Benefit Most from Pres. Trump's Promised $1tn Infrastructure Plan?  1:51autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogTrump's only action to date on an infrastructure project is his approval of permits for the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines. With that, Trump made good on one campaign promise while reneging on another: The Keystone XL pipeline won't have to use American steel in construction, despite a White House order mandating pipelines do so.8. Promise: Cut better deals globally, regain respect Status: Some action, little progressTrump kept his campaign promise to withdraw the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which he said on the trail was badly negotiated and harmful to American workers.On the other global deals, he has accomplished few of his promises: He has not withdrawn the U.S. from the trade deal NAFTA, though he announced late Wednesday that he'd begin renegotiating it. He also has not removed the U.S. from the Paris Climate Change Agreement. His budget did, however, propose cancelling the billions of planned U.S. funding to United Nations climate change efforts, a step towards keeping that promise.On the matter of global adversaries, Trump vowed to be tough on Iran and has issued sanctions on the nation over some missile tests in February. Still, he has yet to make good on his promise to unravel the nuclear deal his predecessor struck with the country — in Trump's eyes, "one of the worst deals I've ever seen." His administration said in mid-April that Iran was complying with the sanctions-relieving nuclear deal at present and subsequently continued the sanctions relief the president had condemned from the campaign trail. The White House said at the time they were reviewing the deal still, and Trump argued that Iran was violating the "spirit" of the deal, which may set the stage for future action.Trump reverses his stances on Russia, China, NATO  2:34autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogMeanwhile, after promising to label China a currency manipulator within his first 100 days, he reversed himself entirely in April. "They're not currency manipulators," Trump told the the Wall Street Journal.After an unorthodox call with the president of Taiwan in December and the suggestion that he might not abide by the One China policy, Trump agreed to honor it in February. The move came during a phone call with the Chinese president, who had reportedly only agreed to take if Trump publicly stated support for the One China policy.Early calls with global allies have also proved problematic: A phone call with one of America's top allies, Australia, saw the president reportedly berate the Australian prime minister over a refugee deal, boast over his election win, and end a scheduled hour-long call after just 25 minutes. They have since appeared to mend ways and the Australian Prime Minister plans to meet with Trump in New York City next month.9. Promise: Reduce crime Status: No actionThere are few indicators that crime has moved one way or another in just a few months, and Trump declined to send federal agents to Chicago to combat crime as he suggested he might in January.What's more, law enforcement experts believe that the president's efforts on immigration could actually drive crime up, as communities close themselves off to police — refusing to report, testify, or even acknowledge witnessing a crime or being a victim — for fear of immigration enforcement.Trump took one direct action aimed at highlighting crimes, rather than preventing them. The Department of Homeland Security and ICE launched an office to support victims of crime perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. Critics, citing statistics that show American citizens are more likely to commit crimes than immigrants, say it's an effort to further demonize immigrants.10. Promise: So much winning Status: Still looking for a big winAs a candidate, the president promised big wins that would be so frequent America would get bored of it. Ahead of the 100 days benchmark, the president seemed in search of such a win, hurrying to launch his tax plan and resurrecting the health care effort just weeks after it failed spectacularly."We are going to have a big win soon, because we are going to have health care and that's gonna happen. And there was no lose with health care, this is just a constant negotiation and the plan is getting better and better all the time," Trump told a Wisconsin television network in April.The president may also still be looking for a win in his approval ratings: Gallup said April 20 that Trump's average approval rating as is the lowest since the polling firm began its survey in 1953, though the latest NBC News poll saw his approval rating begin to creep back up.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/trump-drops-opposition-obamacare-payments-avoid-government-shutdown-n751581
Trump Drops Opposition to Obamacare Payments to Avoid Government ShutdownThe White House has made a second major concession to Democrats in the final stages of negotiations on a critical spending bill, paving the way for a deal to avert government shutdown.The White House said Wednesday that it would drop its opposition to a subsidy for low-income people in the Affordable Care Act, known as Cost Sharing Reductions, a funding stream that the Trump administration had threatened to stop.The agreement removes a politically toxic issue that was threatening to hold up negotiations with only two days left until government funding runs out on Friday at midnight.Still, with time running out to finalize the massive spending bill to fund government programs for the next five months, Congressional negotiators acknowledged that they've run out of time.Republican negotiators in the House and the Senate released the terms of an extension to fund the government for one additional week, an amount of time they say will allow congressional negotiators to finish their work."I am optimistic that a final funding package will be completed soon," said Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, R-New Jersey and chair of the House Appropriations Committee, said in a statement. "The Continuing Resolution will continue to keep the government open and operating as normal for the next several days.""Our major concerns in these negotiations have been about funding for the wall and uncertainty about the CSR payments crucial to the stability of the marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act. We've now made progress on both of these fronts," House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said.Pelosi spoke with White House Chief-of-Staff Reince Priebus on the phone about the funding bill twice on Wednesday.The administration's decision comes down just hours after House Speaker Paul Ryan confidently said Wednesday morning that the ACA subsidy would not be included in the funding bill."Obviously, CSRs -- we're not doing that. That is not in an appropriation bill. That's something separate that the administration does," Ryan said. "We're very, very close in everything else. And now it's just kind of getting down to the final details."House Republican aides say that it's still possible to vote for the measure on Friday and that it could pass the Senate this week as well. But time is running out. If they don't meet the deadline, they could pass a short-term measure that keeps the government's lights on for another week until both bodies of Congress can pass the bigger bill.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/seven-takeaways-white-house-s-massive-tax-plan-n751636
Seven Takeaways From the White House’s ‘Massive’ Tax PlanThe White House unveiled its principles for tax reform on Wednesday, headlined by big tax cuts for individuals and corporations. Here's what's known about the plan, which Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and National Economic Council director Gary Cohn debuted at a press conference, and its chances of eventually becoming law.It's only a loose outlineThis isn't like health care, where Speaker Paul Ryan put out a full bill ready to go with the White House's backing. The White House's tax plan leaves out a lot of important details, including basic information like which income ranges would fall into which tax brackets. Mnuchin said it represented their "core principles" but that they would fill in the rest with Congress.Mad Money's Jim Cramer on Trump's 'Radical' Tax Plan  3:25autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogIt's a lot like Trump's campaign planThe details that are known are significant, though, and they strongly resemble the plan Trump ran on late in the campaign. Mnuchin boasted the proposal included "massive tax cuts" that would boost the economy.For individual taxes, it would shrink the number of brackets to three rates: 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent and double the standard deduction.Related: Here's What We Know About Those Tax CutsBut it would also raise revenue elsewhere by eliminating all deductions besides the ones on charitable donations and mortgage interest. The most contentious one to go would be the deduction on state and local taxes, which would disproportionately affect people in states and cities with higher tax rates.For corporate taxes, it would drop the current top rate of 35 percent to just 15 percent. Companies would be taxed under a territorial system in which they're only liable for income earned in America rather than the current worldwide system, which leaves them on the hook for income earned abroad as well.There would also be an unspecified one-time tax on corporate money held overseas.Especially notable is that the plan would allow "pass-through" entities, which let business owners treat their revenue as individual income, to qualify for the same 15 percent rate.It's bigHow big is unclear without more details, but outside groups estimated Trump's relatively similar campaign plan would have cost trillions of dollars and his new one is likely to do the same.Treasury Secy. Unveils 'Massive' Tax Cuts for Small and Large Businesses  1:43autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"I see more candies than vegetables in this," said Alan Cole, an economist at the conservative Tax Foundation. By his rough estimate, the new plan's new cuts would reduce revenues between $4 trillion and $6 trillion over the next decade while its offsets would bring in about $2.5 trillion.Mnuchin argues the plan will "pay for itself" by raising economic growth, but Cole is skeptical that's the case without significantly limiting its cuts.Maya MacGuineas, a leading fiscal hawk who heads the non-partisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, accused the White House in a statement of "using economic growth like magic beans" to hide their costs. Her group's early estimate of Trump's plan pegs its cost at $5.5 trillion without further offsets.People like Trump would benefit a lot"Pass-through" entities tend to benefit wealthy people like Trump, whose business empire includes a series of pass-throughs in which profits flow to him. The 15 percent rate would give the rich a giant incentive to route their income through pass-throughs to avoid the much higher 35 percent top rate on individual income.Mnuchin addressed this and said the White House would find a way to avoid letting wealthy people avoid paying higher rates, but he offered no details and some tax experts are skeptical this would be easy to accomplish in practice."Ultimately, wealthy people with the best tax advisers will find ways around those rules," Lily Batchelder, a professor of law and public policy at New York University, told NBC News.The plan repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax, which is designed to ensure high earners pay at least some taxes even if they claim a large number of deductions. Trump's 2005 tax return, which journalist David Cay Johnston obtained in March, shows he paid $38 million in taxes on $152 million in income, but $31 million of his tax payment was due to the AMT.By comparison, it's likely the benefits to middle and lower income taxpayers will be much more modest.While not a perfect comparison, an analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center of Trump's campaign plan found that the average gains for the top 0.1 percent of earners would be 14 percent of their after-tax income, versus just 1.8 percent for the middle fifth of earners and 0.8 percent for the poorest fifth.Depending on the details, Batchelder calculated that the proposed changes to deductions could increase taxes for many middle-income and lower-income taxpayers, including single-parent households and families with multiple children.Trump's tax returns are going to be an issueHow much would Trump benefit from these changes? There's no way to know for sure.Trump has refused to make public his tax returns, breaking from decades of White House tradition, and Mnuchin said he had "no intention" to do so in the future. Democrats are already making this lack of information a key criticisms, saying the release of his returns should be a prerequisite for debating a package.It drops a crucial House Republican ideaHouse and Senate GOP leaders put out a statement praising the president's proposals as "critical guideposts" and saying they shared the same goals of lowering rates and simplifying the tax code.But they're not all on the same page.Trump's plan abandoned a key part of the House Republican tax plan known as the border adjustment tax, which would have given greater tax preferences to American companies who primarily export goods in comparison to companies who import goods.The border adjustment tax provision divided the business community, with more import-heavy companies like Wal-Mart opposed and more export-heavy companies like Boeing supportive of the idea, and Republicans were split as well.But House GOP leaders argued it was necessary to raise revenue to help pay for the lower tax rates. Without it, some are skeptical they can afford deep cuts."I'm a big supporter of the (border adjustment tax)," Rep. Chris Collins, R-New York, a key Trump ally, told reporters on Wednesday. "If you take it out, that's all fine and good, but somebody's got to show me its still revenue neutral."Procedural rules could make it hard to passMany Republicans are, like Trump, happy to assume big GDP growth from tax cuts will take care of concerns about the deficit even if most mainstream economists disagree. But another big reason Republicans are worried about offsetting cuts to corporate tax rates is procedural and it could complicate efforts to pass a bill.Just as they tried to do with health care legislation, Republicans are using a procedure called budget reconciliation that lets them pass a bill with only a simple majority in the Senate. The advantage is that they don't have to negotiate with Democrats, who Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said he plans to ignore, but it comes with rules that limit what they can do.Winners and Losers in Trump's Tax Plan  1:51autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogIn the case of tax reform, the "Byrd Rule" prohibits Congress from passing any reconciliation bill that increases the deficit beyond ten years. This is why the Bush tax cuts, which passed through reconciliation, were only temporary.So could Trump do the same and settle for a major ten-year cut?There's actually more potential trouble: even temporary corporate tax cuts might allow companies to roll over savings beyond the ten-year window, thus increasing the deficit and triggering the Byrd Rule, which would scuttle a reconciliation bill.Ryan's own senior tax counsel, George Callas, warned at a panel discussion last week that the Byrd Rule made temporary tax cuts, even as short as three years, impossible without offsets."Not only can that not pass Congress, it cannot even begin to move through Congress," Callas said.All of this creates a mess that could pit Republicans against the Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation, which normally score legislation, and potentially create a showdown over Senate rules.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/comey-had-asked-more-money-fbi-s-russia-investigation-n757461
Comey Had Asked for More Money for FBI’s Russia InvestigationA senior congressional official with direct knowledge told NBC News that James Comey briefed Congress in recent days that he had requested more staff and money for the Russia investigation from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.The New York Times first reported Wednesday that Comey, who was fired as FBI director Tuesday, had asked Rosenstein for additional resources for the probe. According to the Times, four congressional sources, including Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Illinois, said Comey asked the Justice Department for a significant increase in resources during a meeting with Rosenstein."I'm told that as soon as Rosenstein arrived, there was a request for additional resources for the investigation and that a few days afterwards, he was sacked," Durbin told reporters on Capitol Hill Wednesday. "I think the Comey operation was breathing down the neck of the Trump campaign and their operatives, and this was an effort to slow down the investigation."The Department of Justice denies that Comey asked Rosenstein for more resources. Justice Department spokesperson Sarah Isgur Flores told NBC News the report was "entirely false," and "there was absolutely no request" from Comey for more agents or resources for the investigation.Pence Denies Connection Between Comey Firing and Russia Probe  1:19autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogSen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told reporters Wednesday she was not personally briefed by Comey on requests for additional funding for the investigation. However, she said, "I understand that there have been additional requests. That's all I can say."White House officials dispute that President Trump's firing of Comey had anything to do with the Russia investigation. They say that Rosenstein decided, after starting his job two weeks ago, to review Comey's performance. Comey's handling of the Clinton email investigation was the reason he was fired, they say.Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters Wednesday that Trump had been considering firing Comey "since the day he was elected."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/five-names-being-considered-fill-interim-fbi-director-n757486
Five Names Being Considered to Fill In as Interim FBI DirectorIn the wake of Tuesday's sudden firing of FBI Director James Comey, his deputy is currently serving as the acting head of the agency, but a Justice Department official told NBC News four others are also being considered to fill in as interim director.The decision, a justice department official said, is expected to come this week. Here's a quick look at who's on the list:Andrew McCabe, current acting director: McCabe has been in the FBI for 20 years and was promoted to deputy director in 2016. His name recently surfaced in media reports about White House chief of staff Reince Priebus' possible efforts to knock down stories about Trump and Russia. Both the FBI and White House have said nothing improper had occurred. McCabe will testify in place of Comey at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on worldwide threats on Thursday.FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe.  James Lawler Duggan / Reuters fileWilliam Evanina.  Office of the Director of National IntelligenceWilliam Evanina, Office of Director of National Intelligence: Evanina is currently the head of the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive, which is the DNI's counterintelligence agency. That means he looks at insider threats and spying on the U.S. from a broad policy perspective. It also means he has been briefed on the FBI counterintelligence investigation.A Scranton, Pennsylvania native, Evanina spent a year long stint as chief of the counter espionage group for the CIA before taking his latest job in 2014. Prior to that, he was assistant special agent in charge of the national security branch of the FBI's Washington field office.Adam Lee, the Special Agent in Charge in Richmond, Va. office: Lee was appointed to head the FBI's Richmond office in 2014. Before that he worked in the bureau's Washington headquarters where he led the FBI's investigations into elected and appointed officials and civil rights violations.Michael Anderson, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago office.  Rusty Costanza / Times-Picayune via AP fileMichael Anderson, the Special Agent in Charge in Chicago: Anderson became head of the FBI's Chicago division in September 2015. Before that he worked in the bureau's New Orleans office where he investigated the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and former Mayor Ray Nagin.Paul Abbate, FBI Executive Assistant Director for the Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services Branch: Abbate has overseen all FBI criminal and cyber investigations and international operations since January. Before that he worked as the assistant director in charge of the FBI's Washington field office.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/efforts-prevent-government-shutdown-hit-snag-over-health-care-plans-n751936
No Obamacare Repeal Likely Before Donald Trump’s 100th DayPresident Donald Trump looks likely to pass his 100th day in office without successfully repealing Obamacare, but lawmakers appeared to have avoided a government shutdown for at least another week.Following a flurry activity on a compromise to a GOP bill shelved last month for lack of support, Republican House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said late Thursday that there wouldn't be a vote on health care this week.The announcement came after Democrats threatened to oppose even a one-week extension to keep the government's lights on if GOP lawmakers tried to push health care through on Friday or Saturday, which is Trump's 100th day.Trump and GOP House members have been eager to pass a bill on one of their major campaign promises but objections from moderate members on some of the compromise measures and the pressing need to pass a short-term funding bill to keep the government operating past Friday's midnight deadline made a vote untenable.GOP leaders have insisted that while progress is being made on the health care bill, they will not bring it up for a vote until they are sure it has enough GOP support to pass in the face of solid Democratic opposition.Conservatives rally around health care bill, but vote delayed  7:12autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogThe House vote on the funding measure is also shaping up to be a largely partisan vote, further stoking tensions between the two parties that is likely to pour into next week when the next deadline approaches to keep the government's lights on. That House vote is expected sometime Friday.Senate Republicans tried to pass the extension without a roll call vote Thursday evening but Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer objected because he wants a deal on the larger funding bill before he agrees to the extension. Schumer's demand puts more pressure on negotiators to wrap up talks before the Senate tries again on Friday.Leaders of both parties entered the week optimistic about a deal to fund the government through the rest of this fiscal year. The Trump administration dropped its insistence on the inclusion of a down-payment to fund a border wall and its opposition to continuing an Obamacare subsidy, moves seen as helping to smooth the process. But the renewed possibility of a health care vote slowed down the momentum and became a rallying cry for Democrats."If Republicans announce their intention to bring their harmful TrumpCare bill to the House Floor tomorrow or Saturday, I will oppose a one-week continuing resolution and will advise House Democrats to oppose it as well," Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, who is responsible for corralling his party's votes, said earlier Thursday before McCarthy confirmed there would be no vote.Republicans, however, had dismissed Democratic concerns."I'd be kinda shocked if the Democrats would want to create a government shutdown because they have been dragging their feet," House Speaker Paul Ryan said of the government funding talks. "I'm confident we'll be able to pass a short-term extension.""Some of my members do not want any CR," she said, referring to the extension. "They think there has been plenty of time" for negotiations.Trump, growing impatient with the slow and dramatic mechanics of Congress as his 100th day in office approaches, lobbed seven tweets Thursday morning blaming Democrats for the absence of a government funding deal.The Democrats want to shut government if we don't bail out Puerto Rico and give billions to their insurance companies for OCare failure. NO!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 27, 2017He touched on a series of issues that are still holding up a deal, including funding for Puerto Rico and health insurance for coal miners.Trump backed down from two of his demands this week — money for a border wall and withholding subsidies to help lower-income people — to avert a government shutdown.Meanwhile, House Republicans leaders are working to assess the number of votes they have for their updated health care bill after a core group of conservative members of the House agreed to support the measure.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/trump-tries-deflect-flynn-vetting-questions-obama-administration-n752786
Trump Tries to Deflect Flynn Vetting Questions on Obama AdministrationPresident Donald Trump in an interview Friday tried to turn some of the controversy around his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, on the administration of President Barack Obama, saying the retired general was previously vetted."When they say we didn't vet, well, Obama I guess didn't vet, because he was approved at the highest level of security by the Obama administration," Trump said in an interview with Fox News' Martha MacCallum."So when he came into our administration for a short period of time, he came in, he was already approved by the Obama administration and he had years left on that approval," Trump said.Flynn was director of the Defense Intelligence Agency from 2012 to 2014, before being pushed out and retiring from the Army with the rank of lieutenant general.Flynn is under fire for receiving nearly $34,000 in December 2015 for speaking at a gala celebrating Russian TV, and more than $500,000 for lobbying work on behalf of the Turkish government in 2016, after he left the Obama administration.The Trump team did do a background check and learned about Flynn's business ties with Turkey, but Flynn was appointed anyway, people close to the investigation have told NBC News.The Pentagon is investigating whether Flynn broke the law for the payments, Democratic lawmakers said Thursday.A Defense Intelligence Agency letter released by Rep. Elijah Cummings which was sent in 2014 when Flynn retired specifically says Flynn cannot accept fees and gifts from foreign governments "unless congressional consent is first obtained."A second letter released by Cummings shows the Inspector General of the Department of Defense is investigating whether Flynn received proper permission to take the funds. A Defense Department spokesman confirmed the Flynn probe opened April 4.Related: Mike Flynn's RT Headache Won't Go AwayFlynn, who campaigned for Trump, resigned in February over communications he had with Russia's ambassador to the United States, Sergey Kislyak, before Trump took office, and statements Flynn made to the administration about those communications.Trump said at a February press conference that he fired Flynn for misleading Vice President Mike Pence.U.S. intelligence agencies have said they believe the Russian government was involved in a covert campaign to try and influence the U.S. presidential election. Russia's alleged involvement is under investigation by the House and Senate intelligence committees.Cummings Releases Documents Showing Flynn Inaction on Russia Payment  3:05autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogTrump and other Republicans have said that while Russia tried to interfere in the election, they did not succeed and had no affect on the outcome. Russia has repeatedly denied the allegations.An attorney for Flynn said in a statement Thursday that the Defense Intelligence Agency letter contained redacted portions that prove Flynn "provided information and documents on a thumb drive to the Department of Defense concerning the RT speaking event in Moscow, including documents reflecting that he was using a speakers bureau for the event.""The Department was fully aware of the trip," the statement said.Cummings said Thursday that Flynn's legal team "is trying to confuse the issue.""Everyone knew he went to Moscow, but he did not disclose where these foreign funds came from, and it appears that he may have broken the law in the process," Cummings said.In Friday's Fox interview, Trump also said that "Obamacare is dead" and predicted that the House would move on a repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act as soon as next week.The president said he was disappointed by the slow pace of Congress. A first attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare fizzled in early April after the House didn't have the Republican votes needed and the measure was pulled from the floor."I was disappointed that they didn't have more in line by the time I walked in," Trump said. But Trump said it took 17 months for Obamacare to be approved, and said "I believe they're going to get it done. I think maybe next week sometime."Trump also said he has confidence in House Speaker Paul Ryan. "I'll tell you, Paul Ryan is trying very, very hard — I think everybody's trying very hard," Trump said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/house-votes-keep-government-open-one-more-week-n752436
House and Senate Vote to Keep Government Open One More WeekThe House of Representatives passed a short-term extension Friday morning to keep the government operating for another week, one step in averting a shutdown as negotiators continue to work on an agreement to extend funding through the remainder of the year.The Senate also voted to pass the short-term spending bill, known as a continuing resolution, shortly after the House passed it. The president has until midnight tonight to sign the extension. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer told NBC News that he dropped his objection to the extension even though there wasn't an agreement yet on the larger spending bill.House and Senate Pass Short-Term Funding Bill, Avoid Government Shutdown  1:48autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"There's no Democratic objection," Schumer said in an interview with NBC News. "There's still some to be negotiated," on a long-term deal he said, "but the negotiators were up 'til 1:30 last night … so certainly we're willing to give it a few more days."Trump Friday evening signed the House resolution keeping the government running, the White House said.The short-term measure was needed after negotiations between the two parties in Congress and the administration on a long-term bill fell short of Friday's deadline.Those negotiations hit a snag earlier this week with last-minute demands by President Donald Trump. But after just several days, Trump dropped his request for funding for the construction of a border wall and said he would continue to fund cost-sharing subsidies for low-income people in the Affordable Care Act.Trump's concessions helped to move talks along but sticking points still exist, including funding for Puerto Rico and health insurance for coal miners to name just two.But even that one-week funding bill ran into political roadblocks. Democrats said they would not support the extension if Republicans brought up a bill to repeal and replace their signature legislation, the Affordable Care Act.Republicans can only afford to lose 22 members in order for the bill to pass and NBC News has identified 17 who are not supporting it and nearly a dozen more who are undecided.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/top-democrat-taxes-hasn-t-given-deal-trump-n752656
The Top Democrat on Taxes Hasn’t Given Up on a Deal With TrumpRep. Richard Neal (D-MA), the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, isn't happy with President Donald Trump's broad proposal to cut individual and corporate taxes by trillions of dollars. But he isn't walking away from the table either and, in striking contrast to many of his colleagues, he thinks there's still a chance to cut a deal.Neal talked to NBC News in between House votes about Trump's tax plan, the Democrats' economic message, and why he thinks there's hope for bipartisan cooperation. Below is our conversation, edited for length and clarity.NBCNews.com: President Trump put out a giant ambitious tax proposal for individual and corporate and estate taxes.Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA): On one page, double-spaced.NBCNews.com: What do you make of it?NEAL: I think it's less than architecture. I think it could best be summed up as starting the discussion. I don't see much chance that we're going to a 15% corporate rate. All we heard during the years of Obama was "the debt, the debt, the debt" and apparently if it's George W. Bush or Donald Trump, they're less interested.NBCNews.com: Are there specific items that might actually be appealing or others that might be obvious deal breakers?NEAL: I think the Child Care Credit expansion, the Earned Income Tax Credit expansion. I think there's a full acknowledgment that the American corporate tax rate is too high. But after that, I think it's very hard to respond to what really is nothing more than one page of paper.NBCNews.com: It sounds like you're not ready to write this off.NEAL: I think there's a full acknowledgment that when you haven't looked at the tax system in America since 1986, that we should continue the conversation.NBCNews.com: [Senate Majority Leader] Mitch McConnell says they shouldn't bring in Democrats at all on taxes, because you guys are only concerned with what he called "wealth transfer" from the well-off to the less well-off. Do you think that's a fair assessment?NEAL: I think it would probably be a good idea if I sent over the Pew Research study completed on greater concentration of wealth now in America.NBCNews.com: What do you think is the main cause of that concentration? Is it government policy?NEAL: Part of it, I think, is education, part of it is tax policy. Part of it is that 50 years ago people who made a lot of money were producers, I think today increasingly they're speculators. I think the technological revolution has caused part of the issue. I think skill set — I mean right now you have 600,000 jobs in America in the tech field that go unanswered. Right now you have 16,000 precision manufacturing jobs in New England that go unanswered. Six percent of the private sector in America is now organized.This has all contributed to downward pressure on wages and this is the kind of conversation we should have rather than the much-derided supply side economic theories that tend to permeate the debates.NBCNews.com: Obviously, a lot of that debate runs through taxes. Do you see this as one of the principle ways you fight inequality?NEAL: I think we need to invest in community colleges and apprenticeship programs and middle-class opportunities that would give greater opportunities for people who feel, accurately, that the concentration of wealth has left them behind.NBCNews.com: Why do you think Trump was able to connect with people on the specific idea of inequality, of the middle class being left behind, given his own policies and style?NEAL: Sometimes there's a gap between campaign rhetoric and governing and I think they're now discovering it's a lot harder to govern than it is to campaign.NBCNews.com: Do you feel like you have a good working relationship with the White House?NEAL: I feel comfortable talking to [Secretary of Commerce] Wilbur Ross, who I've talked to many times now. I feel comfortable talking to Gary Cohn. [I'm] awaiting a conversation with the Secretary of the Treasury. But I think that so much of this at this point is just a wish list. It's hard to wrap your arms around it. One page? I could say a lot of things myself on one page about what I intend to do, the question is do I know how to [do them] and will they get done?NBCNews.com; So for you going forward, you just assume that whatever actual legislation comes out will look nothing like this.NEAL: Yes I do. I really do. I've earned a reputation for being a negotiator and I tend not to bring a lot of emotion to these arguments at the outset because you don't know what the endgame is going to look like.NBCNews.com: A lot of your colleagues have raised the issue of Donald Trump's tax returns and how he might personally benefit from a tax proposal. Is this a particularly important line of thinking?NEAL: It's apparent to me right now that he is not going to release his tax returns. And, as a result, I think that we should continue the conversation about fundamental tax reform.NBCNews.com: Is it a prerequisite for negotiating with Republicans on taxes that you know what it would do for his finances?I think you're going to see a lot of verbiage that points in that direction. What it means in the end, I'm not sure.NBCNews.com: One thing I've heard from some skeptics [of bipartisanship] is that they think it's clear Donald Trump can't govern with the Freedom Caucus because in a lot of ways he's more centrist on issues instinctively. But they argue there's no way Democrats will work with him given what he's said and what he's done already. Do you think that's true?NEAL: No, I don't. I think there's an opportunity here on tax reform to get some work done.NBCNews.com: So you think people in your party could look past their other disagreements if they have common ground?NEAL: If you start from the supposition that the current tax system is underproductive and inefficient and that the rest of the world is changing tax mechanisms to accommodate changes in the global economy, yeah, I think we have to stay in the room and talk. I want to shape this legislation to my liking.NBCNews.com: Let's say this was a reverse situation: Democratic president, similar majorities. What would Democratic tax reform probably look like?I think you would see an expansion on the individual Earned Income Tax Credits side. I think you would see an increase in the child care credit. I think you would see Build America bonds. I think you would see an expansion of New Markets Tax Credits. I think you would see pro-growth economic policies that go beyond the simple argument that cutting taxes guarantees growth, which did not occur in the Bush years.NBCNews.com: If you had to sum up the Democratic philosophy, how you would describe it on a bumper sticker in a campaign?NEAL: Middle-class tax relief.NBCNews.com: Focused on that and nowhere else?NEAL: For the moment.NBCNEWS.com: How much more should the rich be expected to pay in an ideal system that combats inequality?NEAL: I don't think the argument at this stage is about what the rich should pay as much as the idea they shouldn't get a tax cut.Gary Cohn told me that the tax cuts they were proposing were going to be paid for by shutting down exclusions, deductions, and preferences in the code that he said were concentrated at the top of the income scale in America.NBCNews.com: And that sounds like a pretty good start to you.NEAL: He said to me he thought Democrats would be happier than some Republicans when they got done. I want to hear what he's got to say specifically. It's very hard to respond to a vacuous one-page statement.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/here-s-full-list-donald-trump-s-executive-orders-n720796
Here’s the Full List of Donald Trump’s Executive OrdersIt's been more than three months since Donald Trump took office, and the 45th president has already signed a dozen wide-ranging executive orders, hoping to fulfill a number of his campaign promises.Surrounded by staff during Oval Office photo opportunities, Trump signed a burst of orders in his first three weeks to undo many of President Barack Obama's policies.Here's an updated overview of each of Trump's orders:"Executive Order Minimizing the Economic Burden of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act"Signed: Jan. 20, 2017Hours after being sworn in, Trump signed an executive order aimed at reversing the Affordable Care Act — Obama's landmark legislation — which Republicans vowed to "repeal and replace" throughout the campaign.The executive order states that the Trump administration will "seek prompt repeal" of the law. To minimize the "economic burden" of Obamacare, the order instructs the secretary of health and human services and other agency heads to "waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation" of any part of the law that places a fiscal burden on the government, businesses or individuals.Also in the order are directions to give states more control over implementing health care laws."Expediting Environmental Reviews and Approvals for High-Priority Infrastructure Projects"Signed: Jan. 24, 2017The order outlines how the administration will expedite environmental reviews and approval of "high priority" infrastructure projects, such as repairs to bridges, airports and highways.The order directs the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), within 30 days of a request, to determine a project's environmental impact and decide whether it is "high priority." Project review deadlines are to be put in place by the CEQ's chairman.The order is widely believed to have been issued in response to the protests against the Dakota Access Pipeline."Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States"Signed: Jan. 25, 2017The order outlines changes to a few immigration policies, but most notably it strips federal grant money to so-called sanctuary cities.In addition, the secretary of homeland security is ordered to hire 10,000 more immigration officers, create a publicly available weekly list of crimes committed by undocumented immigrants and review previous immigration policies.The order also creates an office to assist the victims of crimes committed by undocumented immigrants and calls on local and state police to detain or apprehend people in the United States illegally."Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements"Signed: Jan. 25, 2017The order is aimed at fulfilling one of Trump's key campaign promises — enhancing border security — by directing federal funding to construction of a wall along the Mexico-U.S. border. It instructs the secretary of homeland security to prepare congressional budget requests for the wall and to "end the abuse of parole and asylum provisions" that complicate the removal of undocumented immigrants.Other parts of the order call for hiring 5,000 more Border Patrol agents, building facilities to hold undocumented immigrants near the Mexican border and ending "catch-and-release" protocols, in which immigrants in the United States without documentation are not detained while they await court hearings."Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States"Signed: Jan. 27, 2017The order suspends the entry of immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries — Syria, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, Yemen and Somalia — for 90 days and stops all refugees from entering the country for 120 days. Syrian refugees are banned indefinitely. During the time of the ban, the secretary of homeland security and the secretary of state will review and revise the refugee admission process.Also in the order is the suspension of Obama's 2012 Visa Interview Waiver Program, which allowed frequent U.S. tourists to bypass the visa interview process.White House officials have made a number of contradictory statements, at times calling the order a "ban" and at other times referring to it as a "travel restriction." After the order was signed, thousands of protesters popped up at airports across the country to denounce it.Our country needs strong borders and extreme vetting, NOW. Look what is happening all over Europe and, indeed, the world - a horrible mess!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017"Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch Appointees"Signed: Jan. 28, 2017This order stops all executive branch officials from lobbying for five years after they leave office and places a lifetime ban on lobbying a foreign government.The order enacts a number of other lobbying restrictions, including banning appointees from accepting gifts from registered lobbyists and banning appointees who were lobbyists from participating in any issues they petitioned for within the last two years.Some raised concerns over how Trump will fill the jobs in his administration under the new rules."Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs"Signed: Jan. 30, 2017The order states that executive departments and agencies must slash two regulations for every one new regulation proposed. Regulation spending cannot exceed $0, and any costs associated with regulations must be offset with eliminations.The order also directs the head of each agency to keep records of the cost savings, to be sent to the president."Core Principles for Regulating the United States Financial System"Signed: Feb. 3, 2017The order lays the administration's "Core Principles" regarding the U.S. financial system, which includes:Making regulation "efficient, effective and appropriately tailored"Preventing government bailoutsEnsuring that U.S. firms are competitive with foreign companiesThe order directs the treasury secretary to review financial regulations and report back to the president 120 days later with a determination of whether current policies promote the "Core Principles.""Task Force on Crime Reduction and Public Safety"Signed: Feb. 9, 2017The order directs Attorney General Jeff Sessions to create a task force that would propose new legislation to reduce crime, highlighting drug trafficking, illegal immigration and violent crime. The task force will submit yearly reports to the president.Throughout the campaign, Trump promised voters a return to "law and order" in the United States and said minorities from inner cities are "living in hell" because of violent crime."Preventing Violence Against Federal, State, Tribal, and Local Law Enforcement Officers"Signed: Feb. 9, 2017The order calls on the Justice Department to "enhance the protection and safety" of law enforcement by increasing penalties for crimes committed against officers.The attorney general is also instructed to review and determine whether existing federal laws adequately protect law enforcement and later to propose legislation to better protect officers. The order directs the Justice Department to recommend changes in federal grant funding to law enforcement programs if they do not protect officers."Enforcing Federal Law With Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations and Preventing International Trafficking"Signed: Feb. 9, 2016The order outlines the administration's approach to cutting down on organized crime — including gangs, cartels and racketeering organizations — by enhancing cooperation with foreign governments and the ways in which federal agencies share information and data.It identifies human trafficking, drug smuggling, financial crimes, cyber-crime and corruption as "a threat to public safety and national security."The Threat Mitigation National Intelligence — of which Sessions, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, and the secretary of homeland security are co-chairmen — will review and recommend changes to federal agencies' practices in a report to be delivered to the president within 120 days."Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Justice"Signed: Feb. 9, 2017Two weeks after Trump fired Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, this order changes the order of succession for Sessions, who won approval as attorney general last week. The sequence is: the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Illinois and the U.S. attorney for the Western District of Missouri.A week before leaving office, Obama signed an executive order changing the order of succession without explanation."Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda"Signed: Feb. 24, 2017Under this order, each agency must designate an official as its Regulatory Reform Officer (RRO), who will be responsible for reviewing current regulations and making recommendations to the agency head on how to modify them. The RRO must hone in on certain regulations, such as those that are outdated or are perceived to curtail job creation.The order reiterate's Trump's plan to cut down on regulations and comes nearly a month after the president signed an executive order requiring agencies to slash two regulations for every one proposed."Restoring the Rule of Law, Federalism, and Economic Growth by Reviewing the 'Waters of the U.S.' Rule"Signed Feb. 28, 2017The order calls on federal agencies to revise a regulation put in place by former president Barack Obama called the Clean Water Rule. Signed in 2015, the rule expanded the number of bodies of water protected by the federal government to include streams, ponds and smaller waterways.Trump's order directs the administrator of the EPA and the assistant secretary of the Army for Civil Works to review the rule and propose a new one that either eliminates or revises Obama's rule."White House Initiative to Promote Excellence and Innovation at Historically Black Colleges and Universities"Signed Feb. 28, 2017The order transfers the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities (WHHBCU) from the Department of Education to the Executive Office of the President. Since its creation under President Ronald Reagan, the initiative had been under the purview of the Education Department.Trump met with dozens of HBCU presidents the day prior for a listening session, which many students and college leaders were quick to protest out of skepticism that the president was using the meeting as a PR stunt.In an interview with NBC News, Omarosa Manigault said of the order, "We understand that the executive order starts the action but there are so many different steps in terms of defining programming.""Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the U.S."Signed: March 6, 2017The order revises Trump's original U.S. immigration ban, which was hit with dozens of lawsuits shortly after being signed in February and blocked by a federal judge in Washington state. The new order, which goes into effect March 16, bans citizens from six Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. for 90 days.The countries include Iran, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, Syria and Libya. Iraq was removed from the list after the Iraqi government said it would increase information sharing with the United States."Comprehensive Plan for Reorganizing the Executive Branch"Signed: March 13, 2017The order assigns the Office of Management and Budget director Mick Mulvaney to propose a plan to "reorganize and governmental functions and eliminate unnecessary agencies" in an effort to cut down of federal spending and improve "efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of that agency." Within 180 days, the heads of select agencies must submit individual plans to Mulvaney, who will have another 180 days to send a plan to the president.During a daily press briefing, Press Secretary Sean Spicer called the executive order "long overdue" and said agencies will undergo a "thorough investigation" into fiscal waste, though he was unable to provide a target goal for the amount of money the order aims to save."The Revocation of Federal Contracting Executive Orders"Signed: March 27, 2017The executive order revokes key components of the Obama administration's previous executive order banning federal contractors from discriminating against employees on the basis of sexual orientation or identity, gay rights advocates say.Organizations representing the LGBTQ community say the "Presidential Executive Order on the Revocation of Federal Contracting Executive Orders" hobbles several of Obama's previous orders including the "Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces" order by revoking the requirement that companies seeking federal contracts prove they've complied with federal laws banning discrimination based on sexual identity or orientation."Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth"Signed: March 28, 2017The order directs the Environmental Protection Agency to review another executive order, called the Clean Power Plan, signed by Barack Obama in 2014. Obama's plan, which aimed to reduce carbon pollution from power plants, was halted by the Supreme Court in 2016.Trump's new order also asks agencies to review any regulations that could "potentially burden the development or use" of oil, natural gas, coal, and nuclear energy resources. Within 180 days, the agencies must submit reports to the Office of Management and Budget, which will take action to eliminate regulations."Establishing the President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis"Signed: March 29, 2017The order creates the "Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and Opioid Crisis," which will study the federal government's effectiveness in fighting drug addiction by reviewing funding levels, accessibility of treatment services, prescription practices and youth educational messages. A report will be sent to the president within 90 days of the order being signed.Trump appointed Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey as head of the commission."Omnibus Report on Significant Trade Deficits"Signed: March 31, 2017The order directs the Commerce Department and U.S. Trade Representative to compile a report on trade practices that contribute to the trade deficit. The report will look at each of America's trade partners and assess whether the country's trade practices unfairly discriminate against the U.S.Forms of discrimination the report will assess includes non-tariff barriers, anti-dumping and intellectual property theft. Within 90 days, the report will be sent to the White House detailing causes for the deficit.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-nra-eight-year-assault-gun-rights-over-n752446
Trump to NRA: ‘Eight-Year Assault’ on Gun Rights Is OverPresident Donald Trump promised guns rights advocates gathered in Atlanta on Friday that he'd come through for them as they did for him during the 2016 campaign."The eight-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end," Trump told the members of the National Rifle Association, assuring them that they now "have a true friend and champion in the White House.""I will never, ever infringe on the right of the people to keep and bear arms," Trump said. "Never ever."Pres. Trump Fires Up His Base in Historic NRA Speech  1:34autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogHe is the first sitting president since Ronald Reagan to speak to the NRA.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer called the speech to the NRA's leadership forum, which comes on the 99th day of Trump's presidency, a "good way to end an incredible week."The influential lobbying group endorsed Trump early on during the Republican 2016 primaries — a backing he often reminded his crowds about during his long shot bid for office. He drew cheers from supporters amid frequent promises to "save" the Second Amendment, which he said was under siege from opponents, like Hillary Clinton.During one August campaign rally in North Carolina, Trump raised eyebrows when he suggested that "Second Amendment people" could do something if Clinton were elected and got to pick anti-guns rights Supreme Court justices."By the way, and if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."The campaign defended the comments then as a reference to the gun rights group's lobbying power.The NRA, for their part, helped bring Trump's pro-gun message to the airwaves, spending three times as much for Trump as it did for Mitt Romney in 2012, a Washington Post analysis found.Once in office, Trump quietly signed a bill in February rolling back an Obama-era regulation that made it harder for people with mental illnesses to purchase a gun. The now-rescinded rule added people receiving Social Security checks for mental illnesses and people deemed unfit to handle their own financial affairs to the national background check database.The NRA, among other pro-gun groups, supported the move, with NRA-ILA executive director Chris Cox saying the executive order "marks a new era for law-abiding gun owners, as we now have a president who respects and supports our arms.".Had the regulation fully taken effect, the Obama administration predicted it would have added about 75,000 names to the background check database.Gun control advocates worry about Trump's relationship with the gun lobby.Trump to NRA: '8-Year Assault' on Gun Rights 'Has Come to a Crashing End'  1:15autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogAhead of the president's remarks, Shannon Watts of Moms Demand Action said in a statement that "NRA leaders are hoping their investment in the election will help them pass dangerous legislation that would enrich gun manufacturers while endangering Americans. This includes dismantling the criminal background check system, making gun silencers more accessible, and — their ultimate goal — passing 'Concealed Carry Reciprocity'."Bonds from the campaign may have brought Trump to Atlanta to speak with members of the gun lobby, but the prospect of future elections loomed large over the event. Trump stumped for Karen Handel, running in Georgia's Sixth Congressional District against Democratic newcomer Jon Ossoff."She's totally for the NRA and second amendment, so get out and vote," Trump instructed the estimated crowd.Trump also revived a derogatory campaign nickname for Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren, surmising that she may be among those to run for the Democratic nomination in 2020."I have a feeling that in the next election you're going to be swamped with candidates," he imagined, concluding these voters will be saying no sir — or ma'am — to these prospective Democrats. "It may be Pocahontas, remember that."Trump Refers to Elizabeth Warren as 'Pocahontas' During NRA Speech  0:31autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogIn shouting out fellow pro-gun attendees, Trump called out Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, summing up their tumultuous relationship as someone he really liked, then didn't like, now likes again."Like, dislike, like," he simplified, just as he did with his branding of the Texas senator as "lyin' Ted" during the 2016 presidential campaign season.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/ali-vitali-my-100-days-covering-trump-n746771
My 100 Days of Covering President Donald TrumpReporter Ali Vitali has been covering President Donald Trump since he launched his campaign for the presidency.  Nikki Kahn / for NBC NewsThe most consistent thing about my life for the past two years has been @realDonaldTrump.During the presidential campaign, when I was NBC News' "embed" with candidate Donald Trump, you never knew when a late-night or early-morning tweet would torpedo your day's work.It's why every embed group dinner on the road was interrupted by simultaneous pings and vibrations, courtesy of our Twitter notifications. It was why I was paranoid to fall asleep during the primaries. I actually set daily 5 a.m. alarms from August 2015 through Super Tuesday so I could catch up on any overnight or early-morning missives. Compulsive? I had to be.Things haven't changed much.Except for the work space. For roughly the past 100 days, my "office" has been the White House briefing room.I push my overloaded shoulder bag into an X-ray machine, walk through magnetometers (think TSA), and get screened by the Secret Service. Then I push open the white double doors each day and enter the home of the world's most powerful leader — a man who I've covered, if you include the campaign, for over 600 days.Yes, I've been keeping track.Over that time, I chronicled how a controversial real estate mogul made his way to the Oval Office. In the process, I've visited a dozen of President Trump's properties, in the United States and in Scotland, and spent winter weekends following him to the Florida sun when the president stays at his Mar-a-Lago club.I've covered his low points — like the bruising fallout from the leaked 2005 "Access Hollywood tape" in which Trump condoned sexually assaulting women — and his political high moments, most recently the U.S. military strike in Syria launched amid bilateral meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping.I've even been glared at by Kanye West in one of the more bizarre collisions of politics and pop culture in the lobby of Trump Tower.Since taking on the White House beat for NBCNews.com, I've been thinking a lot about the adage that this place is an institution that shapes presidents, not the other way around. That's something I think Trump and I are learning at the same time.After all, we both came up in politics during the 2016 campaign. Him, a long shot seeking the Republican nomination. Me, a 20-something NBC News campaign "embed" itching to cover a presidential election and hoping for an assignment that would keep me on the campaign trail through Election Day.Trump seemed more confident from the start that he'd succeed in his goal than I felt about whether I'd attain mine.While he plowed ahead at early rallies packed with throngs of cheering supporters, I griped on the phone to my then-boyfriend about how sad I was that it seemed my time as an embed would probably be short lived because virtually no one was giving Trump much of a chance. That wouldn't be the first prediction I made last year that turned out to be utterly wrong.Not that I was in the business of making predictions. The presidential campaign was full of pundits and analysts, but I wasn't one of them. I was an embed: Attending every rally; toting 50 pounds of TV gear; filming protesters by standing on tables; emailing rally-by-rally readouts to NBC, MSNBC, CNBC, plus affiliate networks; trying to break news; get some TV hits — and also making sure to call my mom enough.That job is how I landed here, at the White House.Everyone knows it hasn't been a laugh riot for the media covering this president. Not only does he make news more than anyone in recent memory, but he's continued his attacks on the press as "fake news."For me? The sting's gone out of it a bit. Head down, work to do. I've moved on. For sure, it's easier to handle now than it was during the campaign, when those same anti-media grenades were lobbed from a podium and into a sea of thousands of cheering Trump fans, excited for the chance to boo the press.I'm a baseball fan from New York, so I think of it like how the Yankees must feel when they're playing in Fenway Park. It's a small distraction, at most. The fans enjoy the razzing; the players learn not to be fazed by it.Bottom line: The shock value of Trump's anti-media campaign has worn off.I first met Trump while he served jury duty in New York City in the summer of 2015, introduced by his longtime body man Keith Schiller. The first question I had a chance to ask him about was how he planned to pay for the wall on the Mexico border (he didn't really say). I've spoken with him before tapings of interviews and seen him pose for pictures with reporters at a post-election off-the-record gathering at Mar-a-Lago.Amid the opulence and gold of his estate, where he's more at home than in the White House, I glimpsed another side of Trump. I began to understand what his aides often said of their boss — he can read a room.In those settings, I understood why former business partners and current associates describe him as likable and even charming; a guy who cajoles, laughs and does deals. It was almost enough to make me forget about the time he pointed me out from the stage at an Iowa rally around Christmas in 2015 as I was shooting cutaway shots of him from the buffer area around the stage. A normal embed task, but he interrupted his speech to assert his dominance, telling the crowd: "Look, here we have NBC. They're supposed to be back there but that's okay."The predictable unpredictability of Trump. And Twitter's still the perfect platform for him.Tweets have always been a cornerstone of covering Trump and he can still send reporters on a merry-go-round of fact-finding with one tap. It's his way of circumventing a media that he says doesn't treat him fairly.The social media firebombs have changed with the absence of "Lyin' Ted" or "Little Marco" to riff about. "Crooked Hillary" Clinton has not made an appearance on Trump's feed in months, though even five months later he still finds ways to raise the specter of last year's campaign to remind people that, yes, he did beat her even though everyone said he couldn't.Trump's 140-character messages now include real threats on trade, new promises on healthcare, and seemingly spontaneous reflections on foreign policy — all with the gravitas of the @POTUS handle to retweet them. The messenger hasn't changed; he's just got a bigger platform and a national archive.New office, new house, new city, same Trump who yearns for the campaign trail and the reassurance of his base. It's 2017 and yet I still find myself booking flights to campaign-style rallies where he can speak directly to his people. He's got another one in Pennsylvania on Saturday, the same night as the annual White House Correspondents' Dinner that he's boycotting. I joke with friends about checking the calendar to make sure I haven't somehow time traveled back to 2016 when a press "pen" cobbled together with bike racks in the middle of thousands of screaming Trump fans felt like my natural habitat.Trump's still at home there, too. Gripping his podium, using his crafted TelePrompter remarks as suggestions for what he should say. He often doesn't stick to the script.Same as ever on the stage, but those close to him say they've seen a change in the former real estate mogul. And even Trump himself has mentioned his realizations about the vastness of the government he now helms and the weight of the decisions he now makes. He's not just talking about bombing "the s--t out of" enemies anymore — he can literally do it.When the campaign ended, many people asked me if I would follow the president-elect to the White House. I had dedicated so many hours, attended hundreds of rallies, logged thousands of miles and charted intimately his rise. It had been exhausting; it had consumed my personal life. Admittedly, there was a part of me that would have liked to close the book there.But separating from this beat and him is impossible. I feel beholden to this story. On the job at the White House or overhearing the table next to me at dinner, Trump is everywhere — especially on my phone, which still buzzes every time he tweets.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/senate-confirms-alex-acosta-trump-s-secretary-labor-n752301
Senate Confirms Alex Acosta as Trump’s Secretary of LaborWASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed Alex Acosta as labor secretary, filling out President Donald Trump's Cabinet as he approaches his 100th day in office.The 60-38 vote confirms Acosta to the post. Once sworn as the nation's 27th Labor secretary, the son of Cuban immigrants will lead a sprawling agency that enforces more than 180 federal laws covering about 10 million employers and 125 million workers. He is the only Latino in Trump's Cabinet.[Image: Image: Alex Acosta]Labor secretary-designate Alex Acosta testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington on March 22.  Manuel Balce Ceneta / AP fileSen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., spoke for many Republicans with a statement issued just after the vote saying he hopes Acosta's focus will be "promoting labor policies that are free of unnecessarily burdensome federal regulations." Scott said he wants Acosta to permanently revoke rules governing financial advisers and adding Americans eligible for overtime pay.Democrats said any Labor secretary should advocate for the American workers to whom Trump promised so much during his upstart presidential campaign. They said Acosta has given no such commitment."Acosta failed this basic test," tweeted Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass.Acosta has been a federal prosecutor, a civil rights chief at the Justice Department and a member of the National Labor Relations Board. He will arrive at the top post with relatively little clear record on some of the top issues facing the administration over key pocketbook issues, such as whether to expand the pool of American workers eligible for overtime pay.Related: Latino Groups Praise Pick of Alexander Acosta for Trump CabinetAcosta wasn't Trump's first choice for the job. Former fast food CEO Andrew Puzder withdrew his name from consideration last month, on the eve of his confirmation vote, after becoming a political headache for the new administration.Puzder acknowledged having hired a housekeeper not authorized to work in the U.S. and paying the related taxes years later — after Trump nominated him —and came under fire from Democrats for other issues related to his company and his private life.Acosta's ascension would come at a key moment for Trump, just two days before he reaches the symbolic, 100-day marker. The White House has sought to cross the threshold with its own list of Trump's accomplishments.Trump can say the Acosta vote was bipartisan, because eight Democrats and one independent voted yes. Joining the Republicans in his favor were Democratic Sens. Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Claire McCaskill of Missouri, Bob Menendez of New Jersey, Bill Nelson of Florida, Jon Tester of Montana and Mark Warner of Virginia. Independent Sen. Angus King of Maine also voted for Acosta.Labor secretary is the last Cabinet post for Trump to fill. Trump's choice for U.S. trade representative, a job considered Cabinet-level, is awaiting a Senate vote.Related: Labor Secretary Nominee Andy Puzder Withdraws NominationFrom the beginning, Acosta's was a quiet march to confirmation that stood out because it didn't attract the deep partisan battles faced by some of Trump's other nominees, including Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Justice Neil Gorsuch's nomination provoked such a fight that majority Senate Republicans used the "nuclear option" to remove the 60-vote filibuster barrier for Supreme Court picks.Thursday's vote marks the fourth time Acosta has been confirmed for the Senate.Democrats and most labor groups were mostly muted in their response to Acosta's nomination. At his confirmation hearing, Democratic Sens. Patty Murray of Washington and Warren hammered Acosta for answers on a selection of issues important to labor and whether Acosta would cave to political pressure from Trump. Acosta refused to answer the policy questions until he's confirmed, and he vowed to be an independent and fair voice for workers. Both senators said they had great concerns, and both voted no.Our standard can't be 'not Puzder,'" Murray said Wednesday on the Senate floor.But tellingly, even as Acosta's nomination wound through the Senate, Democrats and their allies also tried to move on to other, labor-related issues — namely, a minimum wage hike to $15 an hour, which Trump opposes.Meanwhile, the Labor Department's online landing page bears a glimpse of Acosta's policy priorities: "Buy American, Hire American."That's the title of Trump's executive order this week directing the secretaries of labor and other agencies to issue guidance within 60 days on policies that would "ensure that, to the extent permitted by law" federal aid "maximize the use of materials produced in the United States, including manufactured products; components of manufactured products; and materials such as steel, iron, aluminum, and cement."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/pentagon-investigating-former-nsa-head-flynn-foreign-payments-n751876
Pentagon Investigating Michael Flynn for Foreign PaymentsDocuments released Thursday reveal former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn was specifically warned in 2014 not to take money from foreign governments without advance permission and is now under investigation by the Pentagon for possibly violating the law, lawmakers said.Rep. Elijah Cummings, the highest ranking Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, released a Defense Intelligence Agency letter sent to the former Army lieutenant general as he entered retirement which specifically says Flynn cannot accept fees and gifts from foreign governments "unless congressional consent is first obtained."Pentagon Now Investigating Mike Flynn, Oversight Cmte. Reveals  1:44autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"The Pentagon's warning to Gen. Flynn was bold, italicized and could not have been clearer," Cummings told reporters.A second letter released by Cummings shows the Inspector General of the Department of Defense is investigating whether Flynn received proper permission to take the funds. A Defense Department spokesman confirmed the Flynn probe opened April 4.[Image: Image: Michael Flynn on Feb. 13, 2017]Formre White House National Security Advisor Michael Flyn  Carlos Barria / ReutersFlynn, who resigned in February after misleading Trump administration officials about his conversations with Russian officials, is under fire for receiving nearly $34,000 in December 2015 for speaking at a gala celebrating Russian TV, and more than $500,000 for lobbying work on behalf of the Turkish government."That's appropriate if they think that there's wrongdoing then department's inspector general should look into that," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said of the inspector general probe into the payments.Another Defense Intelligence Agency released Thursday also revealed they could not locate any records of Flynn "seeking permission or approval for the receipt of money from a foreign source."Earlier this week Cummings, joined by Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz, said Flynn may have violated the law by not disclosing the payments."I see no information or no data to support the notion that Gen. Flynn complied with the law," Chaffetz, chair of the oversight committee, told NBC News on Tuesday.Chaffetz has sent a letter to the acting secretary of the Army asking for a determination of whether Flynn violated the law and, if he has, a process for him to pay back the funds.Cummings Releases Documents Showing Flynn Inaction on Russia Payment  3:05autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogAn attorney for Flynn said in a statement Thursday that the Defense Intelligence Agency letter contained redacted portions that prove Flynn "provided information and documents on a thumb drive to the Department of Defense concerning the RT speaking event in Moscow, including documents reflecting that he was using a speakers bureau for the event.""The Department was fully aware of the trip," the statement said.Cummings quickly fired, saying Flynn's legal team "is trying to confuse the issue.""Everyone knew he went to Moscow, but he did not disclose where these foreign funds came from, and it appears that he may have broken the law in the process," Cummings said.Chaffetz and Cummings released a joint statement this week revealing the White House had denied their request for documents relating to Flynn. Chaffetz said he believes the administration simply does not possess the documents, while Cummings has said they are intentionally withholding information about Flynn."I don't understand why the White house is covering up for Michael Flynn," Cummings told reporters.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/view-abroad-trump-s-100-days-n751931
The View From Abroad: Trump’s 100 DaysLONDON — The reviews from around the world of President Donald Trump's first 100 days in office are in, and they're not good."Quite a few people are saying well, 'We're still here,'" joked Alastair Stewart, a top anchor at Britain's ITV News and an observer of global affairs for more than 40 years. But he was only half-joking. "There isn't all-out nuclear conflict, although it's openly talked about. I find that quite extraordinary," he said.Interviews conducted by NBC NEWS in more a half-dozen countries revealed a similar feeling that the world has become more dangerous under Trump and that a major crisis, or worse, could be looming.How the world views Donald Trump's presidency  2:42autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"He is creating too much tensions, and I would say let's back off a little bit," cautioned Haeji Joh, a 26-year-old graduate student in South Korea, adding that the brinksmanship Trump is engaged in with North Korea is frightening.Most military analysts expect North Korea would respond to a U.S. attack on Pyongyang by launching a massive artillery and missile strike on Seoul.Five thousand miles away, a café owner named Suleman in the occupied West Bank was concerned by what he considered Trump's disregard for international diplomacy."Trump's presidency is on a path similar to his ownership of businesses. I feel like he's just gonna basically bankrupt the country," he said.RELATED: Trump's 100 Days: Comprehensive coverageIn Germany, we found the impression that Trump is bent on destroying the European Union, though his support for Brexit and calling France's far-right Presidential candidate Marine Le Pen the strongest candidate ahead of last Sunday's first round of voting."You often get the feeling that he doesn't really think about what he does," said Niklas Kaul.In Cairo, Nourhan Yasser, a 26-year-old claims assessor, didn't mince her words about the president."He's very arrogant," Yasser said. "He does whatever he wants, regardless of what other people think. He's making a lot of enemies."Political analysts said Trump appears to be careening from international crisis to crisis without a clear foreign policy strategy, angering America's neighbors, Mexico and Canada, and flip-flopping on Syria by lobbing a few dozen missiles at the Assad regime his administration seemed to back few days before."I think our view, here, observing it as impartial reporters, is like a school report that says, 'The start wasn't as bad as it might have been, but can do and must do better,'" said the British anchor Stewart. "Until there's evidence of that, folks here I think will still look at the United States of America with a degree of fear."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-defends-firing-comey-democrats-call-independent-probe-n757441
Trump Defends Firing Comey as Democrats Call for Independent ProbePresident Donald Trump on Wednesday defended his decision to fire FBI Director James Comey as Democratic lawmakers ratcheted up their demands for the appointment of a special prosecutor."He was not doing a good job," Trump insisted at the White House. "Very simply, he was not doing a good job."Those were the president's first public comments since he stunned Washington and the nation on Tuesday by abruptly axing Comey as he was leading an investigation into the Trump campaign's alleged ties to Russia.The president later tweeted, "Dems have been complaining for months & months about Dir. Comey. Now that he has been fired they PRETEND to be aggrieved. Phony hypocrites!"Later, Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump "had been considering letting Director Comey go since the day he was elected."Trump had lost confidence in Comey — who had six years left in his 10-year term — "over the last several months," Sanders insisted, but didn't fire him at the outset of his administration because he wanted to "give Comey a chance."But Sanders' remarks are at odds with claims White House press secretary Sean Spicer made just last week when he said he believed Comey still had the confidence of the president.And Trump himself praised Comey as recently as last month in an interview with FOX News' Maria Bartiromo — and several times on the campaign trail."The president was wearing a different hat," Sanders said. "The circumstances change when you become the president."There was also anger inside the FBI at the way Comey was fired."The way this was done, I think was done to send a message to the FBI agents left behind," a senior intelligence official told NBC News. "It's not just that they removed him — it's that they did it in the most thuggish and humiliating way possible. No notice, no nothing — instant execution. The bodyguard delivers the letter to headquarters. I think that was designed to send a message: Cut this sh-- out, or this will happen to you. This is like horse head in the bed."Coincidentally, Trump's remarks about Comey came after a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, which was closed to U.S. press."Not at all," Trump said in response to a shouted question about whether the furor over Comey cast a pall over his meeting with Lavrov. "Good meeting with Lavrov, we want to see the killing, horrible killing in Syria stop as soon as possible. Everybody [is] working toward that end."Photo handouts supplied by the Russian Embassy showed Trump also met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak — one of the central figures in the Comey investigation. That meeting was closed to U.S. media, too.Trump fielded questions from the press at the end of his Oval Office meeting with Henry Kissinger, the former secretary of state for disgraced President Richard Nixon. He did not respond when asked if the next FBI director will be put in charge of the Russia probe.There are already five candidates for the job, including the current acting director Andrew McCabe, a Justice Department official told NBC News. Trump met with McCabe earlier Wednesday, a White House official said. Details of the meeting were not immediately available.Lavrov, in a testy exchange with reporters at the Russian Embassy, said he and Trump did not delve into the allegations that Moscow helped get him elected president, dismissing that as "fake information" and "absurd." He called the furor over Comey an "internal issue."Earlier, Vice President Mike Pence defended his boss' decision to fire Comey as "right decision, right time" and unrelated to the Russia investigation.Rep. Adam Schiff, a California Democrat and ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, told NBC News' Andrea Mitchell that it pains him to say that Pence was lying."He was asked, 'Did the President fire Comey to interfere with the Russia investigation,'" Schiff said. "Well, if he believed that, the simple answer was no. But that wasn't his immediate answer, you could see him thinking about the question."Pence's comments also stood in contrast to the muted response from most of his fellow Republicans, including some key GOP senators, who admitted being troubled by Comey's firing."The White House timing on this was less than impeccable," Louisiana Senator John Kennedy, a Republican, told NBC News. "The president's selection of a new FBI director might be one of the most important decisions of his presidency."Meanwhile, top Judiciary Committee Democrat Sen. Dianne Feinstein renewed her call for a special prosecutor to oversee the Russian investigation."At a minimum, the decision to fire Comey raises questions about the appropriateness and timing of the person in charge of an investigation that could, I won't say would, but could, implicate the administration," Feinstein said.Feinstein and two other Democratic senators also called on the Justice Department to appoint someone other than Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who had a hand in canning Comey, to make the decision on whether a special prosecutor will be appointed — and who that person might be."I think that individual should not be one of the political appointees," Virginia Sen. Mark Warner said after emerging from the caucus room. "I do not have faith in the political appointees."His office later confirmed that Comey has been invited to tell his side of the story on Tuesday before the Senate Intelligence Committee.Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania said he was especially troubled by "the things I learned this morning" about the role Rosenstein played in Comey's ouster. He did not go into detail about what he heard about Rosenstein, who has been previously described as a straight shooter who worked for both Democratic and Republican presidents.But Feinstein focused on the letter Rosenstein wrote to Trump."If you read his paper, it's not a legal paper," she said. "It's quotes assembled from other people and, I thought, very troubling. And this is a man who's been here for two weeks, so I'm a bit turned off on Mr. Rosenstein to be honest with you."The White House on Tuesday cited Comey's handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation as the reason they were firing the veteran G-man, insisting that the president has lost confidence in his ability to perform his job.The White House said Trump over the last several months lost confidence in Comey and after watching Comey's testimony last Wednesday was strongly inclined to remove him; that Trump met with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and deputy Rod Rosenstein on Monday; and that on Tuesday both sent written recommendations to the president.Democrats, most of whom believe that Comey's intrusion into the election helped Trump win the presidency, immediately denounced the move and New York Senator Charles Schumer suggested a "cover-up" was underway.Sen. Chris Murphy, a Connecticut Democrat, said neither he nor his constituents believe "this is all about trying to protect the honor of Hillary Clinton.""It certainly feels like this is in response or connection to a growing scope of the Russia investigation," he told MSNBC on Wednesday.On Wall Street, the stock market sputtered amid fears that the Comey crisis could put the brakes on the pro-growth agenda Trump has been promising.Over in Russia, President Vladimir Putin was suited-up for a hockey match when he dismissed the drama unfolding in Washington."We have nothing to do with it," he told CBS News via a translator. "President Trump is acting in accordance with his law and Constitution."Then he headed out onto the ice."You see, I'm going to play hockey," he said. "I invite you to do the same."Former FBI agent Jeffrey Ringel, who is now with strategic intelligence company The Soufan Group, told NBC News that "most people that I've talked to and from my experience still respect Director Comey and are again saddened that he's leaving."Ringel said he the shakeup won't affect the motivation of the agents working on the Russia investigation."The men and the women at the FBI above all else want to be non-partisan and they want to support the Constitution of the United States. They are not looking to target one particular group, political party, presidency," he said. "We are looking to get to the bottom, to get the truth, so we can conduct our investigation."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/fired-fbi-director-comey-tells-colleagues-it-done-i-will-n757691
Fired FBI Director Comey Tells Colleagues: ‘It Is Done, and I Will Be Fine’Fired FBI Director James Comey said in a letter to colleagues that he's not going to dwell on the manner of his departure and they shouldn't either."I have long believed that a President can fire an FBI Director for any reason, or for no reason at all," Comey said in the letter, which was first reported by CNN on Wednesday and later confirmed to NBC News by three law enforcement officials."I'm not going to spend time on the decision or the way it was executed. I hope you won't either. It is done, and I will be fine, although I will miss you and the mission deeply," Comey wrote.Comey's abrupt firing sent shock waves through Washington and beyond, with some Democrats and other critics calling the move "Nixonian" and an attempt to interfere with investigations into alleged Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election and whether there was any collusion with the Trump campaign.The White House has denied that, and it said Comey was fired over leadership issues; a letter from the deputy attorney general cited his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server. The White House said the president had considered firing Comey since the election. Trump said Wednesday that Comey was fired because "very simply, he was not doing a good job."Some have been skeptical of the reasoning, and there have been calls for a special prosecutor in the Russia investigation. Trump has repeatedly said he has no ties to Russia.In Comey's letter, the former FBI director said, "My hope is that you will continue to live our values and the mission of protecting the American people and upholding the Constitution.""I have said to you before that, in times of turbulence, the American people should see the FBI as a rock of competence, honesty, and independence. What makes leaving the FBI hard is the nature and quality of its people, who together make it that rock for America," Comey said in the letter."It is very hard to leave a group of people who are committed only to doing the right thing. My hope is that you will continue to live our values and the mission of protecting the American people and upholding the Constitution. If you do that, you too will be sad when you leave, and the American people will be safer."Comey concluded: "Working with you has been one of the great joys of my life. Thank you for that gift."Some Lawmakers Call Trump's Firing of Comey a 'Constitutional Crisis'  3:18autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogComey, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, had six years left on his 10 year term. Deputy Director Andrew McCabe was appointed as acting director.It's unclear how long McCabe will serve in that role or whom Trump could pick as Comey's permanent replacement. McCabe is among several possible replacements for interim director, a Justice Department official said.The White House said that Trump lost confidence in Comey over the last several months and that after watching Comey's testimony last Wednesday, he was strongly inclined to remove him; that Trump met with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on Monday; and that both sent written recommendations to the president on Tuesday.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/court-blunts-trump-s-sanctuary-cities-crackdown-n750911
Court Blunts Trump’s Sanctuary Cities CrackdownA federal judge Tuesday blunted the impact of one of President Donald Trump's executive orders on immigration, forbidding the White House from withholding federal funds from sanctuary cities — local governments that limit police cooperation with federal immigration authorities.Federal District Court Judge William Orrick issued a nationwide injunction in response to a lawsuit filed by San Francisco and nearby Santa Clara County. They argued that the president's January 25th executive order, declaring sanctuary cities ineligible to receive federal grants, was unconstitutional.Trump's 'sanctuary cities' order blocked by judge  2:43autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"The Constitution vests the spending power in Congress, not the President," the judge said. President Trump's executive order "cannot constitutionally place new conditions on federal funds."San Francisco's city attorney, Dennis Herrera, applauded the judge's order. "This is why we have courts - to halt the overreach of a president and an attorney general who either don't understand the Constitution or chose to ignore it."Related: San Francisco Seeks Ban on Trump 'Sanctuary Cities' OrderThe Trump administration argued that the lawsuit was premature because the government hasn't yet taken steps to carry out the executive order. But the judge said the city and county were already feeling the effects of budget uncertainty caused by the administration's threat to withhold grants. Lawyers for San Francisco said the city could lose about $2 billion a year.Tuesday's order covered a section of Mr. Trump's executive order titled "Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States." The challenged provision directed the attorney general to ensure that sanctuary cities "are not eligible to receive federal grants." It also directed the secretary of Homeland Security to designate local governments as sanctuary cities.At the heart of the dispute are detainer requests, issued by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement or ICE, asking local police and sheriff's offices to hold jail inmates for up to 48 hours after they have completed serving their sentences. The requests apply to people in the US illegally who are convicted of committing local crimes and who are subject to deportation after they are released.City ordinances prohibit San Francisco police from giving immigration authorities advance notice of an inmate's release from jail, even if the police know that ICE wants to detain that person.Related: Conservative Cities See 'Sanctuary City' Term as Scarlet LetterJudge Orrick also said the executive order was unconstitutional because it imposed conditions on federal funds already issued or approved. And he said the president's action was too broad."Federal funding that bears no meaningful relationship to immigration enforcement cannot be threatened merely because a jurisdiction chooses an immigration enforcement strategy of which the president disapproves," the judge wrote.Pres. Trump Backs Down From Border Wall Funding Requirement  1:35autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogSanta Clara Supervisor Cindy Chavez in a statement Tuesday said the Trump administration attempted an "end run" around the Constitution. Board of Supervisors President Dave Cortese said "The politics of fear emanating from the Trump White House has just suffered a major setback.""The court's decision is a win for the neediest people in our nation. Seniors in need of food, foster youth in need of shelter and children who need medical care," Chavez said. "We'll continue being a welcoming, safe and diverse community."Tuesday's order does not completely forbid the federal government to withhold grant money from uncooperative cities. An existing federal law says local governments cannot restrict law enforcement officials from sending information to the federal government about the citizenship status of any person.The judge said his injunction "does not impact the government's ability to use lawful means to enforce existing conditions of federal grants," including obeying that law.In a statement, the Justice Department said Tuesday's order upheld the government's ability to enforce existing conditions on federal grants and said it "will follow the law with respect to regulation of sanctuary jurisdictions."White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Tuesday night that the administration plans to appeal. "The idea that an agency can't put in some reasonable restrictions on how some of these monies are spent is something that will be overturned eventually," Priebus said. "We'll win at the Supreme Court at some point."Similar lawsuits are pending in Washington, Massachusetts, and elsewhere in California.New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said in a statement Tuesday that the judge's order is another defeat for the Trump administration's policies on immigration."Once again a federal court has told the Trump administration: 'No you can't.' The president is going beyond his authority when he tries to cut vital funding to cities that don't share his illogical and unconstitutional desire to scapegoat immigrants," de Blasio, a Democrat, said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-blames-canada-latest-trade-tiff-n750856
Trump Blames Canada in Latest Trade TiffAfter repeated campaign promises to "get tough on trade," President Donald Trump has moved to slap a roughly 20 percent tariff on softwood lumber entering the United States from Canada, reviving a long-smoldering trade dispute between the U.S. and its second-largest trading partner."People don't realize Canada has been really rough with the United States," Trump said before signing an executive order on an agriculture task force on Tuesday." They've outsmarted our politicians for years.""We don't want to be taken advantage of by other countries and that's stopping and that's stopping fast," he said.The move also follows complaints from U.S. dairy farmers about a recent decision by Canada to change the way tariffs apply to some milk products. The action has had the effect of cutting prices Canadian buyers pay for dairy imports from the U.S.Trump at Farmers Event: Canada 'Outsmarted' U.S. on Trade  4:10autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogTrump has called the move "a disgrace" that's hurting U.S. producers in dairy states like Wisconsin."It has been a bad week for U.S.-Canada trade relations," said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross in a statement. "This is not our idea of a properly functioning free trade agreement."Canadian officials rejected the White House's assertions that its lumber industry is unfairly subsidized and urged the Trump administration to negotiate a settlement."You need our lumber to build your homes," Canada's minister of foreign affairs, Chrystia Freeland, told CNBC on Tuesday, noting that lumber prices have been rising. "If the market was being flooded by cheap Canadian lumber, you wouldn't see that happening right now."The U.S. runs a trade deficit in lumber with Canada, importing more wood than it sends across the northern border. U.S. producers complain that their Canadian competitors enjoy an unfair advantage by harvesting timber more cheaply on federally owned land, while American timber is largely grown on private land.Related: Justin Trudeau Warns Trump About NAFTA Plan, Says Deal Is Good for U.S. JobsThe trade dispute between lumber producers in Canada and the U.S. dates back to the Reagan administration, when a tariff on wooden shakes and shingles sparked a retaliation from Ottawa in the form of higher duties on a variety of U.S. products, including books, computers, semiconductors and even Christmas trees.That trade skirmish helped promote the idea of a broader North American Free Trade Agreement, which was signed by President George H.W. Bush in 1992 and took effect in 1994. Trump has branded NAFTA "a disaster" for American workers, vowing to renegotiate the three-way trade treaty between the U.S., Canada and Mexico.The dispute over dairy products stems from a new pricing agreement with Canadian farmers that slashed the price of the milk ingredients used to make cheese and yogurt. U.S. dairy farmers say the new accord has cost Wisconsin and New York companies millions of dollars.Wisconsin is the largest dairy producer in the U.S. and runs the biggest trade surplus in dairy products with Canada.Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke by phone Tuesday and the two leaders "discussed the dairy trade in Wisconsin, New York state, and various other places" and "also discussed lumber coming into the United States," the White House said."It was a very amicable call," the White House said in a statement.While this week's trade skirmish covers a relatively small piece of overall U.S. trade, a wider dispute could create headwinds for the economy and raise prices for American consumers.The impact would be felt unevenly from one part of the country to another, with states along the northern border most heavily affected.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/ivanka-trump-germany-first-daughter-leaves-some-women-scratching-heads-n750556
Ivanka Trump in Germany: First Daughter Leaves Some Women Scratching Their HeadsBERLIN — Ivanka Trump was in Germany on Tuesday on her first international trip as a member of her father's presidential team. In doing so, the billionaire's daughter stepped into a land that prides itself on meritocracy.This is a country run by Angela Merkel, a veteran politician with a doctorate in quantum chemistry: someone who grew up in communist East Germany, was elected German leader three times, and who is regularly referred to as the most powerful woman on the planet.Alongside her husband, senior presidential adviser Jared Kushner, 35-year-old Ivanka Trump has emerged as one of the key powerbrokers in what has become a distinctly family-oriented White House.Ivanka Trump Defends Her Father at Women's Summit in Berlin  2:07autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogThe first daughter traveled to the German capital, Berlin, on Tuesday after being invited by Merkel to participate in a panel discussion at the Women20 summit — an international event that aims to "promote women's economic empowerment." She arrived having become a prominent champion of working women, and after co-writing an article on the importance of the economic empowerment of women that appeared in the Financial Times newspaper.While Ivanka Trump was in Berlin to promote women, the president himself was front and center during a panel discussion at the summit. The first daughter defended Donald Trump after a handful of attendees booed and groaned when she mentioned his name, saying he had encouraged "thousands" of women who worked for him."As a daughter, I can speak on a very personal level knowing that he encouraged and enabled me to thrive," she said. "I don't take that lightly as a parent now myself. And there was no difference for me and my brothers."Ivanka Trump would have reason to know how her father treats women. Before moving into the White House, Ivanka Trump graduated cum laude from her father's alma mater, the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania. And after a brief modeling career, she went into the family business — the Trump Organization.Some commentators have speculated Merkel's personal invitation to Trump was the German leader's way of opening a channel to President Donald Trump, after an awkward meeting last month in which he appeared to decline her handshake.But many German women do not share their leader's welcoming spirit.Some, including 49-year-old creative director Inga Meyer, question Ivanka Trump's contribution at an affair featuring other uber-qualified speakers such as International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde and Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland."I think it's outrageous," Meyer, the creative director, told NBC News on Monday. "Why does she have the power and the position to meet Angela Merkel?"Meyer stopped to chat with NBC News before cycling to an appointment along one of Berlin's wide, cobbled streets, where bikes and trams are given equal billing alongside compact European cars and tourist buses."It's not clear exactly what her position is," Meyer added, referring to Ivanka Trump's role as an unpaid presidential adviser. "She obviously has more power than what her official role suggests."As well as her presidential duties, she still owns an eponymous clothing and jewelry line.Insofar that Wednesday's summit is about women in business, she is a good fit given her previous experience, according to 35-year-old Sandra Toepke.But "on a political level — I guess not," said Toepke, who works at the International Film Festival and spoke while walking her dog near Berlin's Alexanderplatz."It's pure nepotism that she's in that position," she added. "She's partaking in negotiations at the White House and has security clearance."Lea May, a 22-year-old medical student walking on her way to class, added: "I just don't know if she's really into politics like Angela is."That a number of successful, professional women in Berlin expressed dismay that Ivanka Trump was joining such accomplished set should perhaps not come as a surprise.President Donald Trump is deeply unpopular in Europe but particularly so in Germany, where just 6 percent of people said they had confidence in him when it came to world affairs, according to a Pew study last year.Germany also has a far higher rate of intergenerational social mobility than the United States, according to a study of OECD countries in 2015. This means the future salaries of German children are less dependant on what their parents bank — they make their own way.Merkel, 62, fits this mold. The daughter of a pastor and a teacher, she was born in the West German city of Hamburg but moved to the rural, communist East after her father was posted to a church there. She later earned a doctorate in quantum chemistry and worked at a science academy. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, she climbed up the ranks of the center-right CDU, the political party she now leads.In contrast with Merkel's understated style, many Germans find Donald Trump's persona-driven politics unpalatable."It's ridiculous, what's happening in U.S. politics," said Thyra Guenther-Luebbers, a 21-year-old college student who's also interning at an art gallery in the German capital. "It's something that's never going to happen in Germany or anywhere else in Europe."Taking a stroll down the Unter den Linden boulevard, Guenther-Luebbers gave a similar view of Ivanka Trump: Would she be so successful if it weren't for her last name? "I don't think so."That's not to say that everyone on Tuesday's panel is elected. Among the high-profile guests is Queen Máxima of the Netherlands, who is married to the country's king. Like Ivanka Trump, she too has a background in business, working in banking before meeting her prince.It would also be inaccurate to say everyone in Berlin shared dislike for Ivanka Trump and her family-boosted resume."I like her because she has the ability to influence Donald Trump," said 68-year-old Molly Schultz, who runs a book stall outside the Humboldt University of Berlin. "It doesn't matter so much to me that she isn't so qualified."The ability to influence her father — or at least be a significant voice in his retinue — is something that appears to have been seized upon by Merkel.The German leader endured an excruciating first official visit to the Trump White House last month, when the president appeared to decline to shake her hand for the cameras. In 2015, the president said Merkel was "insane" to relax Germany's borders to welcome migrants fleeing war and persecution in the Middle East and Africa. (Although the same year he also called her "probably the greatest leader in the world today.")During Merkel's visit to Washington last month, some political commentators criticized the decision to seat her next to Ivanka Trump at an official meeting with business leaders, again citing Ivanka Trump's lack of credentials. A photo of Merkel looking at her neighbor was described by Politico as "a look of bewilderment tinged with disdain enveloping her face."The key relation btw #Germany & #USA is a serious matter. It shall not be family business. I disagree with #Ivanka #Trump presence. #Merkel pic.twitter.com/HcqRBYSl05— Siegfried Muresan (@SMuresan) March 18, 2017But it was off the back of this meeting that Merkel invited Ivanka Trump to Berlin, perhaps eager to nurture an ally in a new and unknown White House. In return, the president's daughter would likely get to increase her international profile and champion a cause she says has long since been close to her heart.While in Berlin, Ivanka Trump will also visit the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe.In spite of her schedule, editorials and clear hard work, nearly everybody NBC News spoke to here remained unconvinced by their American guest."Everybody is someone's daughter but the question is, 'Is she qualified for the job?' And I don't think being the daughter of Trump qualifies you for this job, you know?" said 33-year-old sports science student Jennifer Benz.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/tougher-law-enforcement-marks-trump-s-first-100-days-n750376
Tougher Law Enforcement Marks Trump’s First 100 DaysThe Trump administration's move toward tougher enforcement of laws against illegal immigration demonstrated the biggest change in priorities during its first 100 days at the Homeland Security and Justice Departments.Sessions Outlines Tougher Stance on Illegal Immigration  0:51autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogWhile the president's efforts to temporarily restrict immigration by executive order from a handful of predominately Muslim countries were blocked by the courts, the federal government moved ahead with changes in domestic immigration policy.Trump also succeeded in putting a new justice on the U.S. Supreme Court, though much of the credit for that accomplishment was shared with Senate Republicans — most notably, majority leader Mitch McConnell.Read: Rewriting the Rulebook: Trump's Chaotic First 100 DaysFederal court rulings in Washington, Hawaii, and Maryland blocked Trump's first and second versions of an executive order to ban immigration for 90 days from a half dozen countries connected with terrorism. The cases are now on appeal, so it's likely enforcement will remain on hold for at least another few months.Trump travel ban blocked indefinitely by federal judge in Hawaii  3:06autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogThe Justice Department began a new push urging local governments to notify immigration authorities when illegal immigrants are about to be released from local jails. In the strongest move to date, the administration notified nine local governments that they could lose some federal grant money unless they are more cooperative.Attorney General Jeff Sessions, in a clear break from the Obama administration, said the Justice Department would be less interested in opening civil rights investigations of local police departments."We need, so far as we can, to help police departments get better, not diminish their effectiveness. And I'm afraid we've done some of that," he said.Read: In Their Own Words: Experts on Donald Trump's PresidencyThe administration also changed its policy on transgender students. It rescinded guidance to the nation's schools issued by the Obama administration, which warned that failing to allow students to use the bathrooms matching their gender identity could cause them to lose federal funds.Because of that turnaround, the U.S. Supreme Court dropped plans to hear a major legal showdown on transgender rights, and 13 states ended a lawsuit against the federal government over the earlier policy.The Department of Homeland Security took the first steps toward building a wall on the southern border, awarding contracts for two prototypes to explore what the new segments should look like. And DHS abandoned the "catch and release" policy, which had allowed people caught illegally entering the country to be released with a date to appear in court.[Image: Image: Steel walls, fences, razor wire and other barricades on the US-Mexico border]Multiple layers of steel walls, fences, razor wire and other barricades are viewed from the United States side of the of the US-Mexico border in San Ysidro, California on Jan. 26, 2017.  David McNew / AFP - Getty Images fileMost notably, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested about 30 percent more suspected illegal immigrants since January.Most were in a high priority category for removal, or deportation, because they had committed other crimes. But arrests of immigrants with no criminal records more than doubled.Despite a campaign pledge to end the Obama policy on so-called dreamers, people who came to the U.S. illegally as children, President Trump made it clear they will be allowed to stay.They can "rest easy," he told the Associated Press, because his administration is "not after the Dreamers, we are after the criminals."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-promises-we-will-never-be-silent-face-evil-again-n750636
Trump Promises: ‘We Will Never Be Silent in the Face of Evil Again’President Donald Trump promised to confront anti-Semitism and praised the perseverance of the Jewish people and the Holocaust survivors who had the courage to tell their stories.His voice echoing off the walls of the U.S Capitol, Trump spoke forcefully and deliberately, calling out those who would deny or seek or erase the Holocaust."Those who deny the Holocaust are an accomplice to this horrible evil and we will never be silent — we just won't," the president said. 'We will never, ever be silent in the face of evil again."Trump Keynotes Holocaust Remembrance Event: 'We Must Bear Witness'  1:12autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"The survivors in this hall, through their testimony, fulfilled the righteous duty to never forget and engrave into the world's memory the Nazi genocide of the Jewish people," Trump said."You witnessed evil and what you saw is beyond description," he added. "Beyond any description."The president, who campaigned on a promise to stand firm in support of Israel, called the country an "eternal monument to the undying strength of the Jewish people" and continued a promise of friendship of support.Affirmed to Trump in the stories of Holocaust survivors, like the late Elie Wiesel, is the fact that "we must never, ever shrink away from telling the truth about evil in our time."It was a high stakes appearance for Trump whose administration has grappled with gaffes and blunders in recognizing the genocide that killed six million Jews.Even as a candidate, Trump's campaign was repeatedly accused of dog whistling to white supremacist and alt-right supporters — such as his slow disavowal of former KKK Grand Wizard David Duke in February 2016, as well as several re-tweets of apparent neo-Nazi Twitter accounts or alt-right imagery.On Monday, the White House released a statement declaring days of remembrance for Holocaust victims, saying that "every generation must learn and apply the lessons of the Holocaust so that such horror, atrocity, and genocide never again occur."[Image: Image: Trump speaks at the Holocaust Memorial Museum]President Donald Trump speaks on Capitol Hill in Washington on April 25, 2017, during the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum's National Days of Remembrance ceremony.  Carolyn Kaster / APThe strongly worded statement included in clear terms that "The Holocaust was the state-sponsored, systematic persecution and attempted annihilation of European Jewry by the Nazi regime and its collaborators."Some media reports also questioned whether that language, however strong, was plagiarized as the wording matches closely with the Holocaust Museum's "Introduction to the Holocaust" web page.But the sentiment in Monday's statement was starkly different than the January White House statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day that made no specific mention of Jewish people, spurring outrage and speculation about the omission.The Anti-Defamation League's Jonathan Greenblatt called it "puzzling and troubling," even as the White House defended the statement as inclusive of all who suffered and Press Secretary Sean Spicer said "the president went out of his way to recognize the Holocaust."Spicer himself has come under fire for comparing Nazi Leader Adolf Hitler to Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad earlier this month, saying even Hitler "didn't even sink to using chemical weapons" against his own people like Assad did.The White House press secretary later apologized repeatedly for the mistake, telling NBC News a the time that "to draw any kind of comparison to the Holocaust was inappropriate and insensitive." The comment came during the Jewish holiday of Passover.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/ivanka-trump-grilled-booed-during-women20-summit-berlin-n750606
Ivanka Trump Grilled, Booed During Women20 Summit in BerlinBERLIN — Ivanka Trump met with booing and hissing from some conference delegates Tuesday after she mentioned her father's name during her first international trip as presidential adviser.At a panel discussion at the Women20 summit in Berlin, she said President Donald Trump had encouraged "thousands" of women who worked for him.Ivanka Trump, who resigned from any active management role in her businesses to take up the unpaid adviser role, was asked to defend his treatment of working women and families.After a handful of attendees booed and groaned when she mentioned his name, she said: "As a daughter, I can speak on a very personal level knowing that he encouraged and enabled me to thrive. I don't take that lightly as a parent now myself. And there was no difference for me and my brothers."When she said she was "very, very proud" of her father's advocacy for paid leave for families, there was an audible reaction from the audience.Meckel interrupted: "You hear the reaction from the audience so I need you address one more point ... some attitudes towards women your father has publicly displayed in former times might leave one questioning whether he's such an empowerer for women. How do you relate to that? Are things changing?"The first daughter replied that she "certainly heard the criticism from the media."She said she knew "from personal experience that the thousands of women who have worked with and for my father for decades when he was in the private sector are a testament to his belief and solid conviction of the potential of women and their ability to do the job as well as any man."Ivanka Trump was also asked to clarify her White House role and how it was compatible with her fashion business.[Image: Image: Ivanka Trump Attends W20 Conference In Berlin]Ivanka Trump, Canadian Minister of Foreign Affairs Chrystia Freeland, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, moderator Miriam Meckel and Queen Maxima of The Netherlands attend the W20 conference in Germany on Monday.  Sean Gallup / Getty Images"You're the first daughter of the United States and you're also assistant to the U.S. president," said panel moderator Miriam Meckel. "The German audience is not that familiar with the concept of a first daughter. What is your role, and who are you representing? Your father as the president of the United States, the American people, or your business?""Well certainly not the latter," Trump replied."And I am rather unfamiliar with this role as well as it's quite new to me," she continued. "It has been a little under 100 days and it has just been a remarkable and incredible journey."She added: "You know, as an entrepreneur and an individual prior to this in the private sector I care very much about empowering women in the workplace."Also on the panel were German leader Angela Merkel, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde, Queen Máxima of the Netherlands and Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland. Moderator Meckel is a prominent journalist and professor.Many commentators see Trump's visit as an opportunity for Merkel to open a channel into the White House after last month's visit to Washington ended in embarrassment when the president appeared to decline a handshake with the German leader.The first daughter, who was invited by Merkel, arrived after co-writing an article in the Financial Times newspaper on the importance of the economic empowerment of women.Ivanka Trump graduated cum laude from her father's alma mater, the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania. After a brief modeling career, she went into the family business — the Trump Organization. While she has stepped back from her eponymous fashion brand to work at the White House, she remains the owner.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/sebastian-gorka-trump-adviser-linked-hungarian-right-wing-group-abruptly-n750451
Sebastian Gorka, Trump Adviser Linked to Hungarian Right-Wing Group, Abruptly Leaves ‘Fake News’ PanelTop Trump Administration counterterrorism adviser Sebastian Gorka abruptly left a panel on fake news at Georgetown University on Monday after he was questioned about his work at Breitbart and links to a far right Hungarian group with Nazi ties, three people who were there told NBC News.During a roughly six-minute statement, which NBC News obtained a recording of, Gorka described allegations that he belongs to the group Vitezi Rend as a "propaganda campaign" and said that protesters quietly holding signs during the event were "victims of fake news."[Image: Image: Sebastian Gorka]Sebastian Gorka poses with his wife at an inaugural ball wearing a medal from the Hungarian Order of Heroes, Vitezi Rend.  Courtesy of LobeLogRelated: Sebastian Gorka Made Nazi-Linked Vitezi Rend 'Proud' by Wearing Its Medal"Every young person holding a placard to protest my parents and myself — I challenge you now: go away and look at everything I have said and written in the last 46 years of my life and find one sentence that is anti-Semitic," he said. "You won't find one."One of the protest organizers, Andrew Meshnick, said that roughly 50 Jewish and Muslim students attended the event because they wanted a chance to challenge Gorka's "extreme views."Video footage of #Gorka at @Georgetown today. @washingtonpost @jdforward @ForeignPolicy @politico @nytimes @BuzzFeed @roeyhadar (Part 1) pic.twitter.com/NKBKHXGhbh— Mobashra (@mobbiemobes) April 24, 2017They had their chance during a question and answer session that followed the panel. One student, Roey Hadar, raised a column that Gorka wrote when he was an editor at Breitbart — which Hadar called a "yellow journalism rag" — that described the New York Times and the Washington Post as "shills" for "the Jihadis."Hadar asked if such "anti-Muslim rhetoric" legitimized groups like ISIS."Could you quote for me exactly what I said," Gorka replied.Hadar pressed for an answer, to which Gorka responded: "No. If you're going to sling accusations against me, a word-for-word verbatim quote because you are lying or misinformed.".@Georgetown @washingtonpost @jdforward @ForeignPolicy @politico @nytimes @BuzzFeed @roeyhadar Part 2 pic.twitter.com/hoLZOFXWWc— Mobashra (@mobbiemobes) April 24, 2017Students moved on to several more questions. Meshnick asked if the administration created fake news by accusing Susan Rice of committing a crime ("He said: 'You don't know anything — I'm not going to answer your questions,'" Meshnick recalled).Another student asked if Gorka would disavow Vitezi Rend. A university researcher who attended the panel, Mobashra Tazamal, told NBC News that he didn't, and during his statement, Gorka said the organization had a single purpose: battling communism.After five questions, Tazmal said, Gorka stood up and said the rest of the panel should have a chance to speak.Then he left."We're wondering how a bunch of 20-year-olds with signs and facts scared away the president's counterterrorism advisor," Meshnick said. "Why was that so intimidating to him?"The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/after-comey-storm-republicans-try-get-back-business-usual-n757626
As Senate Democrats Turn up the Volume on Comey, GOP Hopes to Move OnThe fierce political storm hit the nation's Capitol without warning Tuesday evening. With the House out of session for the week, the Senate had completed its business for the day and some staffers took advantage of what was supposed to be a slow week and headed out early.Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Illinois, was holding a meeting in his office with labor leaders when one of the attendees got the notification on his phone that President Donald Trump had fired FBI Director James Comey.Minutes later, the second highest-ranking Democrat in the Senate was on the floor giving a short, fiery speech that lasted a mere 30 seconds, demanding clarification of Comey's ouster."I was stunned by it," Durbin said. "And then I stopped and thought for a moment that that is the only way that Donald Trump can stop ... this FBI investigation."For the rest of the evening and into Wednesday, lawmakers scrambled — issuing statements, sending tweets, making the rounds on cable TV and, in the case of many Republicans, dodging reporters in Capitol hallways. The airwaves and social media feeds were filled with declarations of a constitutional crisis, comparisons to Watergate and defenses of the president's actions. There were also plenty of questions.And while Democrats immediately pounced and began plotting their next steps, Republicans' loyalty to a president that they previously struggled to embrace was strained.Some GOP loyalists questioned Trump's unexpected move, but the silence from most members epitomized the uncertain situation they faced even as they tried to get back to business as usual.It took the Republican leader, Sen. Mitch McConnell, nearly three hours after the White House announced that Comey had been fired to release a statement — and it didn't even mention Comey. The short two-sentence statement focused only on his future replacement, calling for a "full, fair, and timely confirmation" of a new director.On Wednesday, House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, said in a statement that he has expanded his request that the Justice Department inspector general look into the FBI's actions in the run up to the election to include Comey's firing.Outraged and unified Democrats moved into action. In a sight rarely seen, they sat somber in their desks on the Senate floor Wednesday morning in a show of protest and determination, demanding that McConnell use his speech to open the Senate for the day to address Trump's decision.Elsewhere, Democrats were eager to talk. In interviews, members expressed indignation that people who had the power to oversee an investigation into Trump had been fired, including Comey and U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. They said the country is facing a constitutional crisis and made comparison to disgraced former President Richard Nixon."It was a test of our Constitution and our separation of powers in 1973 and we passed it. So we're being tested again," Durbin said.With the exception of Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, John McCain of Arizona and Bob Corker of Tennessee, all of whom like to talk to reporters, Republicans tried to ignore the news. McCain called for a select committee to be created, while Graham said a "fresh start" would be good for the bureau and the country.Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Arizona, who criticized Trump during the campaign, looked sheepish and reluctant to talk to the press Wednesday morning as a few reporters followed him as he walked toward the exit on the second floor of the Capital after a vote."I'm trying to figure out the timing. I just don't know why this happened now. I'm having trouble with it still," Flake said.Other Republicans, however, ignored the reporters who swarmed the basement of the Capitol waiting for senators to arrive as well as the throngs of news media lingering outside the Senate floor as senators arrived to take a vote on an unrelated topic.Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who is often eager to talk to the press, declined to comment NBC News three times. He said a statement would be coming from his office.By mid-morning, a statement was released, saying "Mr. Comey had lost the confidence of both Republicans and Democrats, and, frankly, the American people."Vice President Mike Pence was expectantly on the Hill as a precaution to take a tie-breaking vote on a measure that would have rolled back President Barack Obama's rule restricting methane gas. In a blow to Republicans, the vote failed because Sens. McCain, Graham and Susan Collins of Maine voted against it.Pence's vote wasn't needed, but he appeared prepared to answer reporters' questions, saying that Trump made the "right decision" at the "right time."Republicans changed nothing in their schedule. They held their usual Wednesday lunch where they barely even discussed Comey, according to Sen. Corker."We might have spent 90 seconds" on Comey at lunch, Corker said. Corker is the chair of the Foreign Relations Committee and was meeting with the prime minister of Georgia when he heard the news Tuesday night, he said."Everybody's on their own," he said of Republicans and their reaction. "There's no policy statement that's being put out. Everybody's responding to this on their own."Meanwhile, the minority party spent the day strategizing about how to rein in the president.For Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who talked to Trump shortly before the news of Comey's firing broke, the episode was only the latest in what she described as a broader disappointment in his presidency."I had been hopeful that the administration would settle down," she said. "I had been hopeful that I wouldn't have to look at tweets every day to know what the president is thinking."Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, answers questions from reporters about President Trump's decision to fire FBI Director James Comey, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, May 10, 2017. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)  Jacquelyn Martin / APOn Wednesday morning, some of the president's tweets were focused on Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), whose appearance on TV had attracted his attention. Trump sent several tweets to mocking the senator over a 2010 campaign scandal involving misrepresentation of his military service, including a description of how Blumenthal "cried like a baby and begged for forgiveness.""His bullying won't silence my calls for an independent special prosecutor," Blumenthal told NBC News when asked about the president's taunts.They huddled for more than an hour mid-morning to discuss next steps. They emerged from the meeting saying little, deferring to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer.But Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election and possible connections between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin, upped the ante, calling for a special prosecutor before any consideration of a new FBI director.The Democrats haven't officially adopted that position, but several told NBC News that many in the caucus would be supportive of it.In the meantime, Schumer called for the top career civil servant at the Department of Justice to appoint a special prosecutor, for Comey to testify before the Senate and for Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to brief all senators on what happened.How the episode impacts politics in the Senate isn't yet clear.Some Democrats, like Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, predicted a long-lasting fallout."When Donald Trump stepped in and fired the person who's leading the investigation, I think everything changed on Capitol Hill," she told NBC News, "and now there's a lot of people who realize that if we don't get a special prosecutor, then we can never be confident that we got to the bottom of this."For their part, Republicans are hoping that Trump's decision to fire Comey doesn't get in the way of their aggressive agenda to repeal the Affordable Care Act and pass tax reform.Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-Louisiana, said he was confident his work on health care would not be impeded by Comey's ouster.He then struggled to fight his way past a mob of reporters blocking the elevators as they questioned his Democratic colleagues. "Does anyone see the down button?" he said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/utah-rep-chaffetz-provides-transparent-reason-leave-absence-n751901
Utah Rep. Chaffetz Provides Transparent Reason for Leave of AbsenceThe secret is out — Utah Rep. Jason Chaffetz is iron man.The Republican lawmaker revealed on Instagram the jarring X-ray of his right foot, which has for the last 12 years been held together with 14 screws and a metal plate.A photo posted by NBC News (@nbcnews)But even Chaffetz, who is heading back home to Provo to have the hardware surgically removed, admits that the story of how he mangled his foot is, well, lame."Yes, I wish I could say I was cliff diving in Mexico but the truth is I fell off a ladder while repairing something in my garage," Chaffetz wrote in the post. "The University of Utah doctors now recommend immediate surgery to remove all the hardware or I could be at risk for serious infection."[Image: Image: Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah]Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, heads to his car in Salt Lake City on April 19, 2017.  Laura Seitz / The Deseret News via AP fileChaffetz, 50, said he expects to miss at least three weeks of work as he recovers from the surgery."This is not an opportune time to be away but medical emergencies are never convenient," he wrote.Chaffetz's office released a statement from the University of Utah Thursday night on the congressman's current condition."Congressman Chaffetz was admitted to the University of Utah Hospital for immediate surgery in order to resolve a serious complication from a previous injury," spokeswoman Suzanne Winchester said in the statement. "His physician advised him that it was imperative he receive surgical treatment before further complications arose. The surgery was successful and he is now resting comfortably."The congressman's office said Chaffetz would remain in the hospital for the next couple of days and then return home to continue his recovery.Chaffetz — who is chairman of the House Oversight Reform Committee and best known for his investigations of Hillary Clinton and alleged missteps by the Obama administration — surprised his constituents earlier this month with the abrupt announcement that he would not run for reelection in 2018.It came as Chaffetz was feeling the heat from Democrats, and some Republicans as well, for declining to investigate the Trump administration and potential Russian involvement in the presidential election.And it came after Chaffetz got an earful at unexpectedly raucous Town Hall meetings from hostile crowds chanting "Do your job! Do your job!"Related: 'Do Your Job!': Rep. Jason Chaffetz Faces Angry Town Hall Crowd in UtahChaffetz did not give a specific reason for throwing in the towel on reelection beyond wanting to spend more time at home with his family. He also left open the possibility that he might run again for public office, "but not in 2018."It's a safe bet, however, that Chaffetz won't try to revisit his glory days as the starting place kicker on the Brigham Young University football team."That was his kicking foot," Chaffetz spokeswoman M.J. Henshaw told NBC News.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/did-ag-sessions-violate-his-recusal-advising-comey-firing-n757576
Did AG Sessions Violate His Recusal by Advising on Comey Firing?If Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from presidential campaign investigations, how could he participate in the firing of FBI Director James Comey?The question has dogged the Department of Justice since the moment Comey's firing was announced with the release of three odd letters: from Sessions, his deputy Rod Rosenstein, and President Trump.Legal experts say Sessions may have indeed violated his own recusal standard, though the unusual issue is by no means clear-cut. Sessions, who has said he has had no improper contact with the Russians, concluded after meeting with DOJ ethics lawyers in March "I should not be involved in investigating a campaign I had a role in."So did AG Sessions violate his recusal by advising on the decision to fire Comey?Quite possibly — although this is a matter of debate.It depends on the scope of Sessions' recusal, and whether Comey's termination relates to the matters he is recused from, legal experts tell MSNBC.Stephen Gillers, a nationally renowned legal ethics expert from New York University School of Law, told MSNBC that Sessions flatly violated the recusal."The scope of the recusal is very broad — 'any existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President…' The grounds for firing Mr. Comey in the Rosenstein memorandum are explicitly stated to be Mr. Comey's public comments about Mrs. Clinton, during the campaign and prior to the election," Gillers said."These grounds are plainly encompassed within Mr. Sessions' description of the broad scope of his recusal," he added. A U.S. House committee solicited Gillers' view on the recusal issue, and he sent written input to the committee Wednesday.Kathleen Clark, a legal ethics expert at Washington University School of Law, was not as conclusive, but said "there is strong evidence that the firing was related to the investigation, and if Sessions had any access to any information indicating that they were related — that the potential firing was related to that investigation — he had an obligation to recuse."But a former federal prosecutor, who requested anonymity, said if Sessions simply chose to recuse himself, and was not compelled to do so by the DOJ, then he may change his mind."If it's self-imposed, he can change his mind if he wants," said this former prosecutor.Former federal prosecutor Michael Wildes, who teaches legal ethics at Cardozo, criticized Sessions but said his role advising about Comey's firing was not a formal breach."He self-recused himself, so there's nobody who can accuse him of a breach," Wildes said, adding that it would still have been "wiser" to do the firing without Sessions' involvement.Former U.S. Attorney Joyce Vance did not say Sessions flatly violated his recusal — but that it would be better if he had stayed out of the process to avoid any appearance of impropriety."He should not have participated in this decision, in order to preserve the integrity of the outcome," Vance said.How broad was AG Sessions' recusal?Sessions' formal statement says he "decided" to recuse himself from any "existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President."A plain reading of that statement would include matters relating to the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server and probe of any connections between the Trump campaign and Russia.While Sessions said he recused himself from "matters that deal with the Trump Campaign," the exact language of that recusal is in the press release.That exact language is much broader than his remarks referring only to Trump, and typically the exact language matters more than introductory remarks.Sessions cited existing and future investigations. One favorable argument for DOJ would be that the Clinton case was closed and thus no longer an "existing" investigation.Was this a "self-recusal" that Sessions may simply take back?No court or higher authority "ordered" this recusal, so there is an argument that Sessions simply chose to recuse, and might choose to withdraw his recusal or take it back.He did announce the recusal, however, as a product of DOJ career officials advising that he "should" recuse under rules which state prosecutors may have a conflict of interest when they have a political relationship with a potential target.Gillers' analysis is that Sessions' written statement was a "legally operative document" and "anything he says orally doesn't undo the legal consequences of what he said he would do."OK, are there any consequences if Sessions did violate his recusal?For now, no.Legal experts note a typical recusal violation can result in consequences ranging from discipline to dismissal, and can be investigated by the DOJ's internal watchdog.But this situation is rather distinct, since the AG recused himself and the issue is a personnel decision, not an actual case.Legal experts say the only potential legal consequence that may arise would be in hypothetical future litigation.For example, a party alleging harm from Sessions' actions could raise the issue before a judge in a case, if a prosecution grew out of these issues. Someone would need legal standing to challenge Sessions' role, and that person would thus need to be a target or indicted individual.Vance, the former prosecutor, noted this is a "unique" situation."Nobody knows what the legal remedy is, because we are in uncharted territory. Some part of prosecutorial misconduct would have to be alleged in a criminal indictment," she said, adding, "But I've never seen this happen and it would be extraordinary and unprecedented."Beyond formal legal remedies, Congress could also get involved.Sessions made pledges to Congress about this recusal, and Congress has its own measures for responding to any perceived violation, including oversight mechanisms or holding the Attorney General in contempt.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/senate-gop-rallies-around-trump-against-special-prosecutor-n757596
Senate GOP Rallies Around Trump, Against Special ProsecutorSome grumbled, they made grave expressions of concern, and they called for answers. But, so far at least, Republican in the Senate have stopped short of calling for an independent investigation into Russian meddling in U.S. politics after President Donald Trump's abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey Tuesday.Democrats, who question whether Comey's termination was an attempt to quash the FBI's probe into potential collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian agents, renewed their call for a special prosecutor or independent 9/11-style commission.But other than a handful of Republicans in the House, however, the GOP was largely united against the idea.Notably, the Senate's top leaders were especially resistant."Today, we'll no doubt hear calls for a new investigation, which could only serve to impede the current work being done," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on the Senate floor."The FBI is about more than just one investigation," Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), the majority whip, said.He dismissed Democratic demands that the Justice Department appoint a special prosecutor before the next FBI director is confirmed as a "ridiculous position."Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, turned heads by saying he was "troubled" by the timing of Comey's ouster.But Burr, who advised the Trump transition team and is leading the chamber's parallel investigation into the Russian meddling, also pushed back on calls for an independent investigation."To suggest that I'd be for a special prosecutor would say I don't think I can do my job, which is to lead an investigation. So I'm not in favor of a special prosecutor because I think the committee can carry out its responsibility, can come to a conclusion," he said at a press conference.Several of Trump's most outspoken GOP critics fell into the party line, saying an outside investigation was unwarranted or premature — even as they criticized Trump for the manner in which he removed Comey."The President did not fire the entire FBI; he fired the director," Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME), one of her caucus' most moderate members, said in a statement. "I have every confidence that the FBI will continue to pursue its investigation.""This is a counterintelligence investigation, we don't have special prosecutors for a counterintelligence investigation," Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) told NBC News' Kristen Welker Wednesday. "If it became a criminal investigation, then we'd have a discussion."The one exception in the upper chamber was Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), who has long called for a special committee in the Senate to look into the Russia issue."The president's decision to remove the FBI Director only confirms the need and the urgency of such a committee," McCain said in a statement. Still, his recommendation fell short of Democratic demands for an independent prosecutor chosen by a career Justice official rather than Trump's appointees.The firing was the latest controversy dumped into the laps of Senate Republicans, who will now have to navigate a contentious confirmation process for Comey's replacement, who has yet to be named, in addition to their other duties.Democrats cannot filibuster the appointment, thanks to a change in Senate rules executed by former Democratic Sen. Harry Reid when he ran the chamber in 2013. But Republicans can only afford two defections from their narrow 52-seat majority if every Democrat withholds support.While Democrats have yet to lay out their strategy for the confirmation fight, Trump's nominee is likely to face plenty of opposition."Frankly, we should hold off on the FBI director until we get this special prosecutor," said Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), a moderate up for reelection this year who is his party's top-ranking member on the Intelligence Committee.Politically, Democrats feel confident fighting on this issue. A Democratic super PAC, American Bridge, started re-running digital ads asking voters to press two vulnerable Republican senators — Dean Heller (R-NV) and Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) — to call for an outside prosecutor."I just don't know why this happened now. I'm having trouble with it still," Flake, one of Trump's most vocal Republican antagonists, said Wednesday of Comey's removal. "So with regard to a special prosecutor, I'm looking to see how that would impact the senate investigation that's going on. I have confidence in the Senate Intelligence Committee."Senate Committee on Intelligence members Sen. Mark Warner, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Sen. Dan Coats, and Chairman Richard Burr confer before hearing a testimony on Capitol Hill on Sept. 27, 2016 in Washington, D.C.  Chip Somodevilla / Getty ImagesFifty-six percent of American support a special prosecutor for the Russian probe, according to a March Politico/Morning Consult poll, including a majority of independents.Republicans have gotten used to navigating questions about Trump's tweets or controversial remarks. But the firing of an FBI director overseeing an active investigation into allies of the president pushed the White House into uncharted waters."There is no question we are in a very volatile, sensitive and fragile time in this nation," Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC) told NBC News, adding that the timing of Comey's firing "raises my attention."Still, Scott said he wasn't sure if an independent prosecutor is warranted."I don't have any recommendations," Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN), who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said when asked about an independent prosecutor.Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) was relaxed as he fielded reporters' questions about the previous 24 hours. "That's the president's person to hire and the president's person to fire, so I mean," Isakson said, trailing off. Asked how he felt personally about the move, he replied: "This is not an emotional business."Some White House allies were outright enthusiastic about the move. "President Trump acted decisively and within his authority, and I stand behind him," Senator David Perdue (R-GA) said in a statement.Two of the three Russian investigations have now been contaminated by politics, raising doubts about their capabilities to find answers that the public would broadly consider credible.The House Intelligence Committee's probe was knocked off course after the panel's GOP chairman was forced to recuse himself. And now, Comey's firing has put a cloud over the FBI's probe. Attorney General Jeff Sessions had previously recused himself as well and Democrats argued on Wednesday that his role in removing Comey violated that pledge.That leaves the Senate Intelligence Committee, which has so far operated in a bipartisan fashion without major public infighting. But Democrats looking for GOP help in launching a new outside investigation should look elsewhere. There's little sign the party has moved closer to their position.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-defends-comey-firing-mocks-democrats-playing-so-sad-n757281
Trump Defends Comey Firing, Mocks Democrats for Playing ‘So Sad’President Donald Trump on Wednesday morning stood by his surprise decision to fire FBI Director James Comey, while accusing Democrats of appearing to "play so sad" over his abrupt ouster.Trump, in a series of tweets, mocked the Democrats for saying "some of the worst things" about Comey, who was thrust into the national spotlight while the FBI was investigating Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Trump added that now the Democrats "play so sad!"The Democrats have said some of the worst things about James Comey, including the fact that he should be fired, but now they play so sad!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017Taking a further jab at Comey, Trump also retweeted the politically conservative Drudge Report, which linked to a story from a news aggregation site that listed "10 major FBI scandals on Comey's watch."Before the election, Trump himself criticized Comey for ultimately deciding not to bring any charges against Clinton. But then in October, he changed his tune, praising Comey during a Michigan campaign rally for having the "guts" to tell Congress that the FBI was re-opening the probe after discovering Clinton's emails on a laptop belonging to Anthony Weiner.Comey first took the helm of the FBI in September 2013 under President Barack Obama.After Trump won, he kept Comey on — even as Comey led the politically-charged investigation into possible links between members of the Trump campaign and Russia.But the president on Tuesday afternoon swiftly canned Comey after senior Justice Department officials concluded that he'd mishandled the investigation of Clinton.Trump, however, later clarified during a brief meeting with NBC News in the Oval Office that his decision to fire Comey wasn't about the Russia probe. Trump said that he had prior concerns about Comey — but it was his inaccurate Senate testimony last week in which he overstated to Congress the number of emails Clinton aide Huma Abedin forwarded to husband Weiner that led him to question Comey's competence in the job.Democrats had also been vocal in recent months that Comey's handling of the investigation of Clinton was bungled and may have swayed the presidential election.Trump on Wednesday said Comey had "lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington" and tweeted that he would be "replaced by someone who will do a far better job, bringing back the spirit and prestige of the FBI."James Comey will be replaced by someone who will do a far better job, bringing back the spirit and prestige of the FBI.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017Comey lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington, Republican and Democrat alike. When things calm down, they will be thanking me!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017Trump then turned his attention in a series of follow-up tweets to Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., after the senator said on CNN that a special independent prosecutor is needed to continue the Russia investigation."I will actually be introducing legislation that calls for congressional involvement of a special prosecutor because only a special prosecutor can hold accountable anyone who colluded with the Russians" in the alleged hacking attack on the 2016 election, Blumenthal said.Trump attacked Blumenthal on Twitter — as he has previously — for claiming to have served in Vietnam. In 2010, Blumenthal told The New York Times that he misspoke about his record during a veterans ceremony two years prior and had received military deferments."Watching Senator Richard Blumenthal speak of Comey is a joke," Trump tweeted Wednesday morning.Blumenthal told NBC News that Trump's, "bullying won't silence my calls for an independent special prosecutor."Meanwhile, Trump said Tuesday that a search for a new director would begin "immediately." Andrew McCabe, who was promoted to deputy director last year after 20 years with the bureau, was named acting FBI director.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/first-read-s-morning-clips-tax-plan-cometh-n751261
First Read’s Morning Clips: The Tax Plan ComethThe New York Times previews Trump's tax plan: "President Trump plans to unveil a tax cut blueprint on Wednesday that would apply a vastly reduced, 15 percent business tax rate not only to corporations but also to companies that now pay taxes through the personal income tax code — from mom-and-pop businesses to his own real estate empire, according to several people briefed on the proposal. The package would also increase the standard deduction for individuals, providing a modest cut for middle-income people and simplifying the process of filing tax returns, according to people briefed on its details. That proposal is opposed by home builders and real estate agents, who fear it would diminish the importance of the mortgage interest deduction. And it is likely to necessitate eliminating or curbing other popular deductions, a politically risky pursuit."And from the Wall Street Journal: "President Donald Trump on Wednesday is planning to unveil a proposal to cut corporate taxes on U.S. companies' foreign profits and to slash the top tax rate on so-called pass-through businesses, including many owner-operated companies, to 15% from 39.6%, said White House officials familiar with the planning."The Times also explains the plan's reliance on the Laffer curve.From the Washington Post: "Trump has called Saturday's 100-day marker — a remnant of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's initial flurry of legislative action — an "artificial" construct, and he is not incorrect. Yet the kinetic energy emanating from the West Wing, which at times borders on frenetic, reveals a White House eager to cross the threshold with some tangible wins.""A federal judge Tuesday blunted the impact of one of President Donald Trump's executive orders on immigration, forbidding the White House from withhold federal funds from sanctuary cities — local governments that limit police cooperation with federal immigration authorities," writes NBC's Pete Williams. "Federal District Court Judge William Orrick issued a nationwide injunction in response to a lawsuit filed by San Francisco and nearby Santa Clara County. They argued that the president's January 25th executive order, declaring sanctuary cities ineligible to receive federal grants, was unconstitutional."The White House intervened to toughen a State Department letter last week regarding Iran's compliance with the nuclear deal, the Wall Street Journal first reported.Leigh Ann Caldwell has the latest on the government spending bill. But there are still some stumbling blocks before a deal is reached.Trump is going to order the review of the status of thousands of acres of federally protected public lands.There's a health care compromise floating out there, but POLITICO reports that moderates are not excited about it, casting doubt on whether it can pass the House.The Washington Post checks in on the slow pace of Trump's appointments. "The Senate has confirmed 26 of Trump's picks for his Cabinet and other top posts. But for 530 other vacant senior-level jobs requiring Senate confirmation, the president has advanced just 37 nominees, according to data tracked by The Washington Post and the nonpartisan Partnership for Public Service's Center for Presidential Transition. These posts include the deputy secretaries and undersecretaries, chief financial officers, ambassadors, general counsels, and heads of smaller agencies who run the government day-to-day. That's less than half the nominees President Barack Obama had sent to the Senate by this point in his first term."NBC's Phil McCausland checks in with Trump voters in Luzerne County.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/poll-50-have-little-no-confidence-gop-health-care-push-n750361
Poll: 50 Percent Have Little to No Confidence in GOP Health-Care PushHalf of Americans say they have little to no confidence that Republican efforts to repeal and replace Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act would make things better, according to results from the latest NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll.Fifty percent say they have little to no confidence that these GOP efforts would improve things - a 16-point increase from February's NBC/WSJ poll, which was taken before House Republicans pulled their health-care legislation from the floor in March. (Republicans are trying to revive the legislation, but there still isn't a definite path forward.)NBC NewsBy contrast, a combined 21 percent say they either have a great deal of confidence or some confidence that GOP health-care efforts would make things better; 18 percent have an mixed opinion.The NBC/WSJ poll also finds a combined 51 percent of Americans saying that Obama's health-care law is either working well the way it is (8 percent), or that it needs just minor modifications to improve it (43 percent).That's compared with a combined 47 percent who believe the law needs a "major overhaul" (29 percent) or that it should be "totally eliminated" (18 percent).Asked if Congress and President Trump should continue their efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act — also known as Obamacare — 40 percent say yes and 37 percent say no, while 21 percent have no opinion.By party, 74 percent of Republicans believe the repeal-and-replace efforts should continue, compared with 29 percent of independents and 13 percent of Democrats who agree.NBC NewsSix-in-10 Americans Back Immigration, Free TradeAlso in the NBC/WSJ poll, 57 percent of Americans say that free trade with foreign countries is good, versus 37 percent who say that it is bad — essentially unchanged from when this same question was asked in 2015 and 2016.Sixty percent of the public think that immigration helps more than it hurts — up six points from September 2016.And a combined 67 percent of respondents believe that either immediate action should be taken to combat global climate change (39 percent), or that some action should be taken (28 percent).By comparison, 22 percent say we don't know enough about climate change and more research is needed before there's action, and another 10 percent say that concern for climate change is unwarranted.Highest Economic Satisfaction Since 2001And on the issue of the economy, 56 percent of Americans say they're satisfied with it, compared with 43 percent who are dissatisfied.That satisfaction is the highest in the NBC/WSJ poll since 2001.The NBC/WSJ poll was conducted April 17-20 of 900 adults, including more than 400 who were reached via cell phone. The poll has an overall margin of error of plus-minus 3.3 percentage points.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/congress-aims-avoid-shutdown-trump-presses-100-day-wins-n749696
Congress Aims to Avoid Shutdown as Trump Presses for 100-Day WinsCongress returns from a two-week break facing a deadline to keep the government operating while President Donald Trump presses harder for some legislative accomplishments as his first 100 days in office wind to a close.The week is shaping up to be a collision of needs between the two, and time is quickly running out on both.Passing funding to avoid a government shutdown appeared to be an easy task just weeks ago, but new stumbling blocks have arisen in recent days as Trump has added new demands on items like the border wall and increased military spending.Congress faces Friday deadline to avoid government shutdown  2:57autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogGovernment funding ends Friday, allowing only three full days of legislative activity after the House returns late Tuesday night, and the last-minute controversial requests from the administration are threatening to make a deal harder to reach.At the same time, Trump is pushing Congress to move quickly on another attempt to pass a repeal bill of the Affordable Care Act, even though House Republicans aren't unified on a path forward.To add more to Congress' plate, Trump told The Associated Press last week that he intends to unveil his plan to overhaul the tax code, another priority for Republicans but a gesture that caught Republican congressional leaders by surprise.Related: Public Gives Trump Low Marks for First 100 Days in NBC News/WSJ PollAll of this is making for a busy week. Here are the top issues facing Congress when it returns:Funding the GovernmentBecause Congress failed to come together on an appropriations bill for 2017 last year, its passed a short-term measure called a Continuing Resolution, or CR, that funds the government at 2016 levels. But the CR runs out on Friday, giving Congress a hard deadline to pass a comprehensive funding bill to finish the current fiscal year.Nearing 100 Days, Trump's Approval at Historic Lows  4:08autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogWith time running out and the last-minute demands by the Trump administration complicating negotiations, it is likely that Congress, which isn't interested in a government shutdown, will pass another short-term CR to keep the government open for a week or two.Aides to Republican and Democratic members involved in hammering out a funding bill have admitted that talks had been progressing well until last week, when the Trump administration demanded politically toxic measures be put into the measure.Those include $3 billion for border security and the construction of a border wall, as well as $30 billion more for defense spending. The administration also said it wants to withhold funding for some subsidies in the Affordable Care Act that help low-income people afford health care.Both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have expressed displeasure with the administration's late demands.Rep. Tom Reed, R-New York, said politics should be kept out of the funding bill. "I hope we can avoid these ideological issues and focus on keeping the lights on," Reed said Friday on MSNBC.Related: Record Number of Americans Say Government 'Should Do More'"We've asked the president not to interfere. If he doesn't interfere, we can get this done," said Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York. "So we ask him to let us do our work and to not throw in some last-minute poison pills that could undo it and we can get this done."The Democrats don't want money from budget going to border wall despite the fact that it will stop drugs and very bad MS 13 gang members.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2017Health CareAs if working up to the eleventh hour to keep the government open wasn't enough, the White House is pushing the House to vote on a Republican health care bill to undo much of Obamacare.Trump, who underestimated the ideological splits among House Republicans on the last go-around, would still like them to pass their signature campaign promise — repealing Obamacare — before his 100th day on Friday.Priebus: 'I Would Like to Have a Vote This Week' on Health Care  0:30autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogAn amendment revealed last week is meant to be a compromise for the most conservative members to agree to support the bill. It's not impossible for a vote on health care to come up this week, but leadership isn't likely to let members vote on it unless they have a majority — 216 Republicans — to pass the bill.In a conference call with Republican members over the weekend, House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin made it clear that while work on health care continues, the focus of the coming week will be on keeping the government open.Tax ReformAnother wish-list item for Republicans is tax reform, which, according to their original plan, was supposed to be presented as early as this month or May. But the failure of the health care bill has complicated the timeline, pushing tax reform back to the fall.Still, Trump, eager for the aura of success, said he would unveil his plan for corporate and individual taxes this week.Trump Promises 'Big Tax Reform' Ahead of 100-Day Mark  2:47autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogA plan is not legislation, however, and Ryan has said tax reform is much more difficult to achieve without repealing the nearly trillion dollars of taxes in the Affordable Care Act.2018 AppropriationsWhile Congress is still wrangling over 2017 funding, it must make progress on 2018 funding. Congress' main responsibility is to fund the government, and if the Republicans, who ran on the platform of fiscal responsibility, want to have government funding in place for the next fiscal year on time, their work on a dozen appropriations bills must be complete by Oct. 1.Debt CeilingBy August, the government is expected to reach the limit on its ability to borrow money — or pay for government programs like Social Security and air traffic controllers — forcing Congress to raise the debt ceiling.It's been a controversial vote in recent years as Republicans used it to paint President Barack Obama as fiscally irresponsible and nearly forcing a government shutdown over it. While the deadline isn't pressing at the moment, it's another part of a complicated summer calendar.But it will be the first time Congress will have to raise the debt ceiling with a Republican in the White House since its politically controversial Obama years. It'll still be a difficult vote for conservatives who voted against it in the past.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/pelosi-course-you-can-be-democrat-against-abortion-n749856
Pelosi: ‘Of Course’ You Can Be a Democrat and Against AbortionWASHINGTON — Democratic House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi says that it's absolutely possible for someone to be a member of the Democratic Party and also be against abortion."Of course," she told Chuck Todd when asked on Sunday's "Meet The Press.""I have served many years in Congress with members who have not shared my very positive — my family would say aggressive — position on promoting a woman's right to choose."Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez and Independent Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders received backlash this week from abortion-rights groups since they scheduled a rally with a mayoral candidate in Omaha, Nebraska, who previously supported an abortion-related ultrasound bill.Pro-Life Democrats? Pelosi Says 'Of Course'  3:04autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"Why don't you interview Tom Perez?" Pelosi asked before answering the question. "You're interviewing me."Pelosi's appearance Sunday coincided with a moment when she has again emerged as a clear target of Republican groups trying to defeat Democratic candidates in special elections for U.S. House seats.Advertisements from the Congressional Leadership Fund, the Super PAC that's endorsed by House Republican leadership, are trying to tie Democrats like Jon Ossoff in Georgia and Rob Quist in Montana to what they call her "liberal agenda."Pelosi said that those kind of ads show "the bankruptcy of their own initiatives. The voters in their districts want to know what they are going to do for them."But Pelosi did not shy away from the idea that voting candidates of a certain party into office wouldn't mean they would frequently adhere to the party leaders.She reversed the charge against her, and aimed to tie Republican candidates to House Speaker Paul Ryan."Since you brought it up, and I'm glad you did, I think it's really important for the voters in those districts to know who the candidates will be voting with," Pelosi said. "Will they be voting with Paul Ryan, who wants to eliminate the guarantee of Medicare, who has voted to privatize Social Security, who's there to dismantle Medicaid? And, so, it's not a question of the person, just as it isn't about the president. It's a question of the policy. So, if you want to vote for someone like Paul Ryan for speaker, and that is a vote to dismantle Medicaid, it is a vote to eliminate the guarantee of Medicare."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/poll-record-number-americans-say-government-should-do-more-n749766
Poll: A Record Number of Americans Say Government ‘Should Do More’In November, voters gave control of the White House and Capitol Hill to the party traditionally associated with reducing the size of government. But now, a record number of Americans say that the government should do more — not less — in order to solve the nation's problems.A new NBC News/ Wall Street Journal poll finds 57 percent of the public saying that the government should do more to solve problems and meet the needs of Americans, versus 39 percent who said the government is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals.That's the highest share yearning for a more active government since the poll began asking voters about the role of government in 1995. And it's a significant shift even since 2015, when 50 percent said that the government should do more while 46 percent complained that it was too active.NBC NewsThe shift also comes after a political campaign that saw party orthodoxy upended on both sides of the aisle.As the Republican presidential nominee last year, Donald Trump defied the traditional GOP promise of federal belt-tightening, defending government programs like Social Security and Medicaid and pledging a massive infrastructure plan. Candidate Bernie Sanders won unexpected momentum during the Democratic primary by trumpeting his support for a single-payer health care plan, expanded Social Security and tuition-free public college.Americans of all political stripes have trended towards a more active government in the past few years, but the shifts have been particularly significant among independents and Republicans.NBC NewsFor example, in October 2010, 17 percent of Republicans said that the government should do more, while 79 percent said it was doing too much. In the latest poll, the share of Republicans saying that government should do more is up to 28 percent, while 69 percent say it does too much.The net change for independents is even more dramatic. In 2010, independents favored a less active government by 22 percentage points. This year? They favor a more active government by the same share.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/house-gop-moves-forward-new-compromise-addition-health-care-n749496
House GOP Moves Forward on a New Compromise Addition to Health CareWith President Donald Trump pushing for a legislative victory before his 100th day in office next Friday, pressure is mounting on House Republicans to move forward with a new idea that would amend their health care bill.The measure, written by Rep. Tom MacArthur, a moderate Republican from New Jersey, was hashed out with Rep. Mark Meadows R-N.C., the chair of the conservative Freedom Caucus, in an attempt to bring together enough members to pass health care reform in the House.Their plan, which was just bullet points on Thursday, could be released as legislative text as early as Friday night or Saturday according to sources familiar with the discussions.How Close is Congress to a New Health Care Bill?  1:48autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogRepublicans are holding a conference call Saturday afternoon to touch base ahead of their return to Washington on Tuesday, and the new legislative language could be distributed to them ahead of the call.A senior GOP leadership source says its "definitely possible" that the House could vote next week on the bill, but acknowledged that no decision has been made.The White House has been pushing for a deal on health care since the GOP bill was pulled from the House floor just prior to a final vote in March for lack of support.The compromise under consideration addresses some of the conservatives' concerns over regulations imposed on insurance companies that they say drive up the cost of premiums.Congress also has to focus on funding the government, which runs out on April 28 — Trump's 99th day in office.But it's still too early to tell if this will convince enough Republicans to support the bill, despite pressure from the White House to pass something as early as next week. The president took an optimistic tone on the chances Thursday, saying, "we'll see what happens, but this is a great bill, this is a great plan and this would be great health care and it's evolving."Rep. Charlie Dent, R-Penn., a moderate who opposed the House GOP's Obamacare replacement bill in March, told NBC News that the proposed changes by MacArthur and Meadows aren't sufficient to make him change his mind."It doesn't do anything to change the problems with the underlying bill," Dent said, adding that he's still concerned about the cuts to Medicaid and that the tax credits aren't generous enough to help the low-income and seniors.It allows states to apply for a waiver from providing essential health benefits in their insurance plans, which are services the federal government mandated that insurers must cover like maternity care, hospitalization and emergency care. States would be able to set up high risk pools for the most costly people to insure with the goal of bringing down the cost of insurance for healthier individuals.But the plan doesn't address other conservatives' concerns, including the mandate on pre-existing conditions and other insurance regulations.It does allow for states to apply for a waiver on the community rating, a mandate that limits the amount health insurance can charge certain people more. But increased charges can't be because age, health and gender, essentially keeping intact the component known as the community health rating.The plan also doesn't address the concerns of moderates who are worried about cuts to Medicaid and tax benefits that are too small to help people purchase individual coverage.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/health-care-compromise-circulates-congress-prepares-return-n748851
Health Care Compromise Circulates As Congress Prepares to ReturnHouse Republicans working on a deal to overhaul the nation's health care system have come up with a set of bullet points aimed at bridging differences between GOP factions and restarting the attempt to pass legislation that would replace the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare.The measure, written by Rep. Tom MacArthur, a moderate Republican from New Jersey, was hashed out with Rep. Mark Meadows R-N.C., the chair of the conservative Freedom Caucus, in an attempt to bring together enough members to pass health care reform in the House.But it's still too early to tell if this will convince enough Republicans to support the bill, despite pressure from the White House to pass something as early as next week.GOP Moderates Propose Health Care Compromise to Conservatives  2:12autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blog"We¹re doing very well on health care," President Donald Trump said at a news conference Thursday. "We'll see what happens, but this is a great bill, this is a great plan and this would be great health care and it's evolving."But Rep. Charlie Dent, R-Penn., a moderate who opposed the House GOP's Obamacare replacement bill in March, told NBC News that the proposed changes by MacArthur and Meadows aren't sufficient to make him change his mind."It doesn't do anything to change the problems with the underlying bill," Dent said, adding that he's still concerned about the cuts to Medicaid and that the tax credits aren't generous enough to help the low-income and seniors.Meanwhile, leadership aides tell NBC that there is no plans as of now for a vote next week. There is no legislative text to shop around to members ,who are still in their home districts until Tuesday.Congress also has to focus on funding the government, which runs out on April 28 — Trump's 99th day in office."There's still too much of a focus on. An arbitrary 100 day deadline and because it helps the baseline for tax reform is not a reason to rush this," Dent said.In addition, the proposal is not much different from ideas discussed before Congress left town for its two-week Easter recess. At that time, the central components were not enough to convince the most conservative members to support it.Opposition from both sides of the Republican ledger helped scuttle GOP leaders' effort to repeal and replace Obamacare in March, resulting in a defeat for both House Speaker Paul Ryan and President Donald Trump on one of their signature legislative priorities.The compromise draft addresses some of the conservatives' concerns over regulations imposed on insurance companies that they say drive up the cost of premiums.[Image: Image: Tom MacArthur]Rep. Tom MacArthur speaks at a news conference at the Capitol in 2016.  Bill Clark / CQ-Roll Call via AP fileIt allows states to apply for a waiver from providing essential health benefits in their insurance plans, which are services the federal government mandated that insurers must cover like maternity care, hospitalization and emergency care. States would be able to set up high risk pools for the most costly people to insure with the goal of bringing down the cost of insurance for healthier individuals.But the plan doesn't address other conservatives' concerns, including the mandate on pre-existing conditions and other insurance regulations. It does, however, allow for states to apply for a waiver on the community rating, a mandate that limits the amount health insurance can charge certain people more. But increased charges can't be because age, health and gender, essentially keeping in tact the component known as the community health rating.The plan also doesn't address the concerns of moderates who are worried about cuts to Medicaid and tax benefits that are too small to help people purchase individual coverage.Republicans have a conference call Saturday to discuss it and other pressing matters before they return from break on Tuesday.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/susan-rice-did-nothing-wrong-say-both-dems-republicans-n747406
Susan Rice Did Nothing Wrong, Say Both Dems and RepublicansA review of the surveillance material flagged by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes shows no inappropriate action by Susan Rice or any other Obama administration official, Republican and Democratic Congressional aides who have been briefed on the matter told NBC News.President Donald Trump told the New York Times he believed former National Security Adviser Rice broke the law by asking for the identities of Trump aides who were mentioned in transcripts of U.S. surveillance of foreign targets. Normally, the identities of Americans are blacked out in transcripts circulated by the National Security Agency, but they may be "unmasked," if their identities are relevant to understanding the intelligence.'I leaked nothing to nobody,' Susan Rice insists  16:26autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogRice did not dispute that she requested the identities of certain Americans in the waning days of the Obama administration, but she denied any wrongdoing in an interview with NBC News' Andrea Mitchell. Her denial came after Nunes said he believed the names of Trump aides had been inappropriately unmasked and circulated.Related: What Is Unmasking, And Did Susan Rice Do Anything Wrong?Members of the House and Senate intelligence committees from both parties have traveled to NSA headquarters to review the relevant intelligence reports."I saw no evidence of any wrongdoing," said one U.S. official who reviewed the documents, who would not agree to be identified further. "It was all completely normal."[Image: Image: Devin Nunes]House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes speaks to reporters at the Capitol on March 24.  J. Scott Applewhite / AP, fileHis assessment was shared by a senior Republican aide who had been briefed on the matter but declined to speak on the record.The finding by lawmakers of both parties was first reported by CNN.Nunes has recused himself from his committee's investigation of Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election while the Office of Congressional Ethics investigates complaints that he disclosed classified information when he brought the unmasking concern to light.When the New York Times asked Trump on April 5 if Rice broke the law, Trump said, "Do I think? Yes, I think.""I think it's going to be the biggest story," Trump added. "It's such an important story for our country and the world."Related: Nunes Backs Down From Assertion Trump Was MonitoredSebastian Gorka, a Trump national security adviser, was asked by Sean Hannity on Fox News how the unmasking issue compared to Watergate."Losing 14 minutes of audiotape in comparison to this is a little spat in the sandbox in the kindergarten," Gorka replied.Analysis: Is Susan Rice Responsible for Unmasking Trump Aides?  2:22autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogBut current and former U.S. intelligence officials have said that any unmasking request by Rice would have been made to the NSA director or the FBI director, who would have the final say. Both men are still in their jobs under President Trump.Current and former officials say it is routine, and not inappropriate, for the national security adviser to request the identities of Americans mentioned in intelligence reports.Related: Nunes Had Secret White House Meeting Before Trump Monitoring Claim"Let's say there was a conversation between two foreigners about a conversation they were having with an American, who was proposing to sell to them high-tech bomb making equipment," Rice said April 4 on MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell Reports. "Now, if that came to me as National Security Advisor, it would matter enormously. Is this some kook sitting in his living room communicating via the internet, offering to sell something he doesn't have? Or is it a serious person or company or entity with the ability to provide that technology perhaps to an adversary? That would be an example of a case where knowing who the U.S. person was, was necessary to assess the information."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/rep-joe-wilson-s-you-lie-line-used-against-him-n745426
Rep. Joe Wilson’s ‘You Lie’ Line Used Against Him at Contentious Town HallAn angry crowd in South Carolina chanted "you lie" to Rep. Joe Wilson at a town hall Monday, using the Republican congressman's own infamous line against him.Wilson was rebuked after shouting those words at former President Barack Obama during his speech to Congress in 2009, after the president said the health reforms he was proposing would not apply to those in the country illegally.Wilson later apologized, and Obama accepted the apology, saying at the time that "we all make mistakes."South Carolina Congressman Faced Boos, Shouts at Town Hall  1:37autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogWilson was confronted at a town hall in Aiken County, South Carolina, on Monday again on the issue of Obamacare — but this time by people upset over Republicans' plans to repeal the health care law.A GOP effort fizzled last month due to lack of support in the House, but the majority party and President Donald Trump say that replacement is still on the agenda.At the town hall at Aiken Technical College, members of the crowd held red signs with "you lie" on them and shouted the phrase at one point. Wilson said after the meeting that he is still committed to repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act."My concern about Obamacare is we've already seen skyrocketing premiums, we've seen deductibles become unapproachable to work with," Wilson told NBC station WAGT of Augusta, Georgia."People have lost their doctors, they've lost insurance, lost their jobs. We can do better," Wilson said. He said that a new plan allowing purchase of insurance across state lines, association health plans and health savings accounts would give people more choice.The Congressional Budget Office last month estimated that the Republican plan to repeal and replace the ACA could result in 24 million people losing their health insurance by 2026.2015: When Tempers Flare: Memorable Moments of Politicians Fired Up  1:35autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogThe CBO and the Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the House bill as amended would have reduced federal deficits by around $150 billion over the 2017-2026 period, down from the $337 billion projected under the initial bill.The bill was criticized by some moderate Republicans in states that expanded Medicaid under the ACA, who were concerned over how it could affect lower-income, older Americans. A 64-year-old making $26,500 would have paid an average of $12,900 more per year in premium costs, according to the CBO, and their insurance would not cover as much.Conservative Republican Senators and members of the House Freedom Caucus criticized the repeal and replace plan as not going far enough to curtail regulations on health insurance companies or reduce the cost of health care premiums. Republican Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul called it "Obamacare lite."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/paint-shop-owner-juan-carlos-enriquez-took-trump-won-n747756
Paint Shop Owner Juan Carlos Enriquez Took On Trump — and WonFlorida paint shop owner Juan Carlos Enriquez has what you might call a complicated relationship with Donald Trump.For three years, he waged a fierce legal battle to get the real-estate mogul to make good on an unpaid bill.And then in November, he voted for the guy."Politics and business are two different things," Enriquez, 52, told NBC News.[Image: Image: Juan Carlos Enriquez]Juan Carlos Enriquez, owner of a Miami paint business, sued Donald Trump and won.  Meredith Amor / NBC NewsTrump, of course, won.And so did Enriquez.Two weeks ago, an appeals court ordered Trump's company to pay Enriquez for $32,000 worth of paint used in a golf-resort renovation, plus his legal fees. The total: more than $300,000."A lot of people tried to beat this guy. Bush, Cruz, Rubio all lost against him. But we beat him," said Enriquez, one of at least 60 people who have sued Trump and his companies over unpaid bills.Enriquez was born and raised in Miami, the son of Cuban immigrants. He worked for paint giant Sherwin-Williams for two decades and then decided to go into business with his brothers. Nine years ago, they launched The Paint Spot, which now has three locations in the Miami area.In the fall of 2013, the small business got a big job. A subcontractor on the $200 million remodeling of the Trump National Doral golf resort ordered $142,000 worth of paint from Enriquez.[Image: Image: Donald Trump listens to questions from reporters after a campaign event with his employees at his Trump National Doral golf club in Miami, Florida, Oct. 25, 2016.]Donald Trump listens to questions from reporters after a campaign event with his employees at his Trump National Doral golf club in Miami, Florida, Oct. 25, 2016.  Jonathan Ernst / ReutersThe paint was delivered and used, court records show. Trump Endeavor, the company that operates the resort, paid the early installments of the bill, but after the subcontractor walked off the job, Enriquez never got a final payment of about $32,000.In the fall of 2014, Enriquez filed a lien, a legal tool used to recover a debt by tying up a piece of property. He said he offered to settle the matter for $26,000 but the Trump team balked — not surprising since Trump has repeatedly boasted that he never settles.Months went by, and Enriquez followed up with a lawsuit. The resort fought back on technical grounds: a piece of paperwork Enriquez filed listed the wrong subcontractor. Enriquez had received the document from a Trump official, but failed to correct it — which Trump lawyers claimed made the lien invalid."When we sat down for the deposition, his lawyers tried to intimidate me and say that if I lost, I would have to pay their fees," Enriquez said. "I said, 'Let's play ball — I've been playing ball all my life.'"A Miami-Dade Circuit Court judge didn't buy the Trump defense, ruling in the spring of 2016 that the resort had to pay for the paint. Then the judge tacked on a multiplier to compensate Enriquez's lawyer, Daniel Vega, for taking the case on contingency, swelling the award by $283,949.91 in legal fees.The Trump Organization decided to appeal, and the case was still pending when Enriquez had to decide who to send to the White House. A registered Republican who sometimes votes for Democrats, he admits he hesitated over his mail-in ballot."I was pissed at that point," he said.He knew that Trump had been accused of stiffing other small businesses. And he believes the mogul — who once boasted that he never settles a lawsuit — has "got to be accountable" for decisions made by his underlings or attorneys."People who don't pay their bills? It gives me a bad taste in my mouth," he said.Still, he put his mark in the Trump column."At the end of the day, you have to be a proud American," he said, praising Trump's immigration policies and "no-nonsense" style.[Image: Image: Then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump drives himself around the golf course]Then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump drives himself around the golf course on March 6, 2016, in Doral, Florida.  Luis M. Alvarez / APAfter the election, Enriquez said, he became more "nervous" about the outcome of the appeal."He's got a lot of power," he said of Trump.And the stakes were high. If he lost, he could have been forced to pay the Trump attorney fees."This is a company that just started. Where am I going to get $300,000? I would have gone bankrupt," he said.On April 12, Enriquez's lawyer called with the good news: the appeals court upheld the judge's order. The attorney who handled the case for Trump, Bruce Rogow, told NBC News there would be no further appeals. The Trump Organization's general counsel, Alan Garten, did not respond to several requests for comment.Most of the award will go to Vega to cover his fees. Enriquez said he only expects to recoup the original $32,000 plus interest and some money he paid out to cover legal costs.What he'd like to do with the money is, well, downright Trumpian."Hopefully, we'll open another store," he said.Those plans might have to wait a bit, at least until the check is in the mail."I still haven't gotten my money," Enriquez said with a laugh.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/new-fbi-acting-director-mccabe-considered-respected-bureau-man-n757201
New FBI Acting Director McCabe Considered a Respected, Bureau ManThe man taking over an FBI under the spotlight after the abrupt firing of director James Comey — is described as a respected and a fast-rising member of the bureau with a past focus on terrorism.The shakeup of the federal investigation agency — in the midst of probes into alleged Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election — took some Democratic lawmakers by surprise and raised charges of a "Nixonian" move by the Trump administration. Andrew McCabe, who joined the FBI 20 years ago and was promoted to deputy director last year, was named acting FBI director, a Justice Department official said.It's unclear who Trump will nominate to replace Comey, but Senate Democrats could insist on a special prosecutor for the Russia campaign probe as a condition of voting for a replacement, a senior Democratic aide said.McCabe, who is considered to be well-respected inside the FBI, recently surfaced in reports that Trump's chief of staff sought agency help to knock down stories about Russia and the campaign late last year. In the end, the FBI did not get involved, and the White House said there was nothing improper. A law enforcement source said FBI officials also did not consider any lines to have been crossed.McCabe joined the FBI as a special agent in 1996 working out of New York, where he focused on organized crime. He was promoted to a unit focusing on counterterrorism and extraterritorial investigations of Sunni extremists in 2006, and in 2016 was promoted to deputy director of the FBI.At the time Comey said in a statement that "Andy's 19 years of experience, combined with his vision, judgment, and ability to communicate make him a perfect fit for this job."In February, senior Trump administration officials told reporters that McCabe pulled White House chief of staff Reince Priebus aside to say a New York Times report that said the FBI was examining evidence of contacts between Trump aides and Russians during the campaign was inaccurate.FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, left, and Attorney General Loretta Lynch in 2016.  Jacquelyn Martin / APAccording to an anonymous senior administration official, Priebus responded to the FBI's McCabe: "Okay, what am I supposed to do?" and "How do we fix this?"According to a White House official, McCabe then talked to other officials at the FBI and determined there was nothing the FBI could do. FBI officials said they didn't want to get into the business of publicly parsing elements of news reports.A senior law enforcement source told NBC News at the time that it wasn't clear which side first brought up the stories. At the time White House officials said Priebus didn't do anything wrong, and senior law enforcement official said FBI officials also did not consider any lines to have been crossed.But Democrats seized on the reported conversation as a violation of longstanding traditions holding that the FBI must be independent of the White House. After Tuesday's firing of Comey, those questions were raised anew.The White House said the search for Comey's replacement would begin immediately, so it is unclear how long McCabe will remain as acting director. Trump met with McCabe in the Oval Office for around 30 minutes Tuesday, NBC News reported.When McCabe was promoted to deputy director in 2016, he said in an interview that terrorism by groups like ISIS was one of his top priorities."That is the scariest thing for me right now," he told the Los Angeles Times. "It's the broadening and intensity of the terrorism threat, the crowd-sourcing of terrorism, the flood of propaganda, the enormous number of folks who have become swept up in that propaganda."When he was promoted to deputy director the FBI said McCabe "will oversee all FBI domestic and international investigative and intelligence activities and will serve as acting director in the director's absence."McCabe was appointed to replace deputy director Mark Giuliano, who retired, the FBI said. A former colleague described McCabe as a smart and young agent who enjoyed a rapid rise.McCabe's wife, Jill, ran as a Democrat for Virginia state senate in 2015 but lost. The Wall Street Journal reported in 2016 citing campaign finance records that the political-action committee of Democratic Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe gave nearly $470,000 to her campaign, and that McCabe later helped oversee the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server.History offers glaring precedent for Trump  5:18autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogThe FBI said in a statement to the Wall Street Journal at the time that McCabe "played no role, attended no events, and did not participate in fundraising or support of any kind. Months after the completion of her campaign, then-Associate Deputy Director McCabe was promoted to Deputy, where, in that position, he assumed for the first time, an oversight role in the investigation into Secretary Clinton's emails."McCabe graduated from Duke University in 1990 and got a law degree from Washington University in St. Louis, and considered a career as a prosecutor but ultimately chose the FBI, the Los Angeles Times reported. He spent three years in private practice because the FBI had a hiring freeze at the time."On the civil side, it's ultimately about people arguing about money," he said in the Los Angeles Times in the 2016 interview. "On our side, it's about passion, violence and intrigue. That is the stuff that makes people tick."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/first-read-s-morning-clips-who-knew-it-would-be-n752371
First Read’s Morning Clips: Who Knew It Would Be This Hard?TRUMP AGENDA: Who knew it would be this hard?Trump is warning of a possible "major, major conflict" with North Korea.And Trump told Reuters this: "I loved my previous life. I had so many things going. This is more work than in my previous life. I thought it would be easier."The Washington Post spoke to Trump about his abrupt reversal on NAFTA: "President Trump was set to announce Saturday, on the 100th day of his presidency, that he was withdrawing from the North American Free Trade Agreement — the sort of disruptive proclamation that would upend both global and domestic politics and signal to his base that he was keeping his campaign promise to terminate what he once called "a total disaster" and "one of the worst deals ever." "I was all set to terminate," Trump said in an Oval Office interview Thursday night. "I looked forward to terminating. I was going to do it." There was just one problem: Trump's team — like on so many issues — was deeply divided."Leigh Ann Caldwell, with the latest machinations in Congress: "President Donald Trump looks likely to pass his 100th day in office without successfully repealing Obamacare, but lawmakers appeared to have avoided a government shutdown for at least another week."And from the Washington Post: "Despite pressure from the White House, House GOP leaders determined Thursday night that they didn't have the votes to pass a rewrite of the Affordable Care Act and would not seek to put their proposal on the floor on Friday."Benjy Sarlin notes that the path to tax reform is going to be a long slog.The New York Times, on what the tax plan would do: "President Trump's proposal to slash individual and business taxes and erase a surtax that funds the Affordable Care Act would amount to a multitrillion-dollar shift from federal coffers to America's richest families and their heirs, setting up a politically fraught battle over how best to use the government's already strained resources. The outline that Mr. Trump offered on Wednesday — less a tax overhaul plan than a list of costly cuts with no price tags attached, rushed out by a president staring down his 100-day mark in office — calls for tax reductions for individuals of every income level as well as businesses large and small. But the vast majority of benefits would accrue to the highest earners and largest holders of wealth, according to economists and analysts, accounting for a lopsided portion of the proposal's costs."The Senate has confirmed Labor Secretary Alex Acosta.From POLITICO: "A firm co-founded by Donald Trump's original campaign manager Corey Lewandowski appears to have been pitching clients around the world by offering not only policy and political advice, but also face time with President Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and senior members of their administration, according to documents and interviews."What happened to GOP concerns about the deficit? The New York Times reports.Charles Koch: "Trump's policies must not benefit only big businesses like mine."And the Wall Street Journal writes that economic growth likely stalled in the first quarter of the year.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/timeline-former-fbi-director-james-comey-s-fall-grace-n757131
Timeline: What Led to FBI Director James Comey’s FiringFormer FBI Director James Comey received high marks from members of both sides of the aisle until the Hillary Clinton email controversy.Here's a look at how Comey, fired by President Donald Trump on Tuesday, went from being a well-regarded leader of one of the government's most respected law enforcement agencies to a Washington lightning rod.Sept. 4, 2013: Comey sworn in as director of the FBI, after being appointed by President Barack ObamaMarch 2, 2015: The New York Times reports that Clinton used a personal email account while serving as secretary of state.July 24, 2015: Government watchdogs announced the discovery of classified information on Clinton's server. The discovery prompts inspectors general at the State Department and office of the director of National Intelligence to refer the matter to the FBI.August 4, 2015: The Washington Post reports the FBI is investigating the security of Clinton's private email server.July 1, 2016: Attorney General Loretta Lynch said she would accept the recommendation from the FBI and career prosecutors at the conclusion of their investigation into Clinton's emails. Lynch came under fire for an tarmac meeting with former President Bill Clinton while the investigation was ongoing.July 5, 2016: Comey announces at a press conference that he would recommend no criminal charges against Clinton, but slammed the Democratic presidential nominee for being "extremely careless." The announcement was an unusually public event to announce he did not believe Clinton committed any criminal wrongdoing.July 7, 2016: Comey tells the House Oversight Committee that Clinton "did not break the law."July 2016, exact date unknown: The FBI opens an investigation into Russian attempts to meddle in the impending election, which includes probing any connections between Republican Donald Trump's campaign and the Russian government. It does not disclose the investigation publicly. The investigation's existence (and when it began) was confirmed nine months later when Comey testified before Congress on March 20, 2017.Sept. 28, 2016: The FBI head tells the House Judiciary Committee he has no plans to re-open the investigation into Clinton, despite GOP calls to do so. "You can call us wrong, but don't call us weasels. We are not weasels," he said.Oct. 28, 2016: The FBI announces in a letter to Congress that it is reviewing a new batch of emails related to the Clinton investigation. Investigators found the messages during a probe into former Rep. Anthony Weiner, husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin.Nov. 6, 2016: Two days ahead of the election, Comey announces the bureau has completed its review of the new batch of emails and that the FBI won't change its original conclusion that Clinton should not be prosecuted. The emails were found to have been previously discovered.Nov. 8, 2016: Republican Donald Trump defeats Clinton in the presidential race.Jan. 12, 2017: The Justice Department Inspector General announces he will review the FBI's handling of the email case.Mar. 20, 2017: Comey publicly confirmed the FBI is investigating whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia during the 2016 election.May 3, 2017: The FBI director passionately defended his decision to reopen the Clinton email investigation so close to the election. Democrats grill Comey for what they contend is his unusually public handling of the case.May 9, 2017: The White House announces Comey has been dismissed as FBI head.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/four-roadblocks-could-wreck-trump-s-tax-plan-n751276
Four Roadblocks That Could Wreck Trump’s Tax PlanTrump to unveil tax reform plan Wednesday  1:00autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogFour roadblocks that could wreck Trump's tax planThe Trump administration today is expected to unveil a tax-cut blueprint that would slash the tax rate to 15% for corporations, small businesses, and firms like the president's own company, NBC's Kristen Welker confirms. On "Today" this morning, NBC's Peter Alexander added that the proposal also would increase the deductions that individuals claim. But the outline, according to our eyes, faces four political and mathematic challenges:1) How do you pay for it? Or does it increase the deficit? Earlier this week, Treasury Secretary Mnuchin told reporters that economic growth would pay for the tax plan (read: it likely WILL increase the deficit). And if that's the case, it would make all of the GOP criticism of higher deficits and debt during the Obama years seem incredibly hypocritical. Yet there are Republicans who appear concerned about how the Trump proposal could grow the deficit. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) "described Mr. Trump's plan to cut the corporate income tax to 15 percent as 'pretty aggressive,' with unknown consequences for the deficit," per the New York Times.2) Can Republicans stay unified to pass it? The GOP plan to pass any tax cut through Congress is to use reconciliation to prevent a Democratic filibuster against the legislation, so that it will need just 51 Senate votes instead of 60. But that means, with a 52-48 majority, there's little margin for error. And by the way, using reconciliation presents its own challenges — due to the rule that it can't increase deficits beyond a 10-year budget window. That's why the Bush tax cuts expired after 10 years. But: "Even a temporary tax cut in the corporate tax rate as short as three years might cost the government revenue beyond 10 years and run afoul of those reconciliation rules," the Wall Street Journal says. "Lower rates mean that businesses will use fewer tax credits, said a senior aide to House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.). As a result, they will carry those credits forward and reduce revenues in future years."3) How much will it benefit the highest earners? Increasing the standard deduction would help middle-class Americans. But reducing the business tax rate to 15%, especially for small businesses, seems to be a big help to the wealthiest. Here's why, according to the Times: "The 15 percent rate would apply both to corporations, which now pay 35 percent, and to a broad range of firms known as pass-through entities — including hedge funds, real estate concerns like Mr. Trump's and large partnerships — that currently pay taxes at individual rates, which top off at 39.6 percent." Going from 39.6% to 15% is a big break, right? Don't forget this Trump exchange on "Today" last year:SAVANNAH GUTHRIE: Do you believe in raising taxes on the wealthy?TRUMP: I do. I do. Including myself. I do.4) How much will it benefit Trump himself? This might be the biggest challenge of all, especially with Democrats saying that their side will oppose any Trump tax plan unless Trump finally releases his own tax returns to show how much he might personally benefit under any proposal.Pres. Trump reacts to court ruling on 'Sanctuary Cities'  3:40autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogCourt deals Trump another immigration setback (but one he can exploit with his base)"A federal judge Tuesday blunted the impact of one of President Donald Trump's executive orders on immigration, forbidding the White House from withhold federal funds from sanctuary cities — local governments that limit police cooperation with federal immigration authorities," NBC's Pete Williams reports. "Federal District Court Judge William Orrick issued a nationwide injunction in response to a lawsuit filed by San Francisco and nearby Santa Clara County. They argued that the president's January 25th executive order, declaring sanctuary cities ineligible to receive federal grants, was unconstitutional." Don't forget: Immigration has been the one place where Trump's early administration has made an impact -- and where the president hasn't backed down. So this is a blow to his administration before his 100th day in office. Then again, nothing more might fire up his base with the line: "A federal judge in San Francisco…"More Michael Flynn troubles for the White HouseThe more we learn about former Trump National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, the more striking it is that he got as high as he did in the Trump White House (before being ousted). "President Donald Trump's former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, appeared to violate federal law when he failed to seek permission or inform the U.S. government about accepting tens of thousands of dollars from Russian organizations after a trip there in 2015, leaders of a House oversight committee say," the AP writes. "The congressmen also raised new questions about fees Flynn received as part of $530,000 in consulting work his company performed for a businessman tied to Turkey's government."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/census-director-john-h-thompson-abruptly-quits-people-counting-agency-n757161
Census Director John H. Thompson Abruptly Quits People-Counting AgencyWASHINGTON — The director of the people-counting Census Bureau is leaving his job just as the agency steps up its once-a-decade tally, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.Census Bureau Director John H. Thompson was expected to leave the agency at the end of the year but instead will depart June 30, according to a government statement. Thompson said he is pursuing "opportunities in the private sector.""Your experience will be greatly missed," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in the same statement.Census Director John Thompson poses for a portrait in this undated handout image.  U.S. CensusThompson testified to a House committee last week that the 2020 Census was on track. Members of the panel expressed concern about the escalating costs and overruns of the decennial accounting exercise mandated by the Constitution. The 2010 Census was the costliest U.S. Census in history, at about $12.3 billion, Robert Goldenkoff, strategic issues director for the Government Accountability Office. Thompson, who was confirmed to his post in 2013, told the same panel that the cost of the 2020 Census will cost about $12.5 billion.Some of the increased projection is the result of modernizing the counting process, Goldenkoff said.Asked whether Secretary Wilbur Ross or Trump himself had asked Thompson to step down, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said by email: "He's simply retiring from public service. He spent 30 years in public service and 10 in the private sector."The Census, conducted every 10 years since 1790, is critical to determining how to run the country as it grows and diversifies. Beyond government spending, the private sector also uses demographic information collected in the enumeration.The U.S. recently surpassed 325 million people. By 2044, whites are expected to become a minority. In 2020, the questionnaire is expected to include a new classification for Americans who are of Middle Eastern descent.The director is nominated by the president for a five-year term and confirmed by the Senate.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/trump-won-election-it-s-electorate-he-s-lost-so-n750586
Trump Won the Election. It’s the Electorate He’s Lost So FarTrump won the election. It's the electorate he's lost so farIn addition to President Trump's early struggles in his first 100 days, there's a longer-term problem for his administration and the GOP: Many of the issues he's championing aren't popular with the public — at all. Per the latest NBC/WSJ poll:50% of Americans have little to no confidence that Republican efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare will make things better, versus just 21% who have some or a great deal of confidence.57% agree with the statement that free trade is good, versus 37% who think it's bad.60% believe immigration helps more than it hurts, versus 32% who think it hurts more than it helpsA combined 67% believe action is needed to global climate change, versus a combined 32% who disagree.And 57% of Americans say that the government should do more — the highest percentage here on this question dating back to 1995 — while 39% say the government is doing too many things.Now Trump does back more government involvement (on infrastructure, for example) than many of his Republican colleagues do, but he's also for smaller government on other matters (taxes, regulations). Still, on the other key issues above -- health care, trade, immigration, climate change — Trump's administration and policies are playing to the minority of Americans, not the majority. As NBC/WSJ co-pollster Fred Yang (D) puts it, "Trump may have won the election, but he is losing the electorate." If the border wall (more on that below) were popular, he'd get it, or at least have a much better chance of getting it. Ditto repeal and replace. But right now, a president with a 40% approval rating is playing to 40% of the country — or less than that.NBC News56% are satisfied with economy, but there's something going on inside of those numbersDespite many of the rough numbers for Trump in the NBC/WSJ poll, there are two real bright spots. The first is Syria, with 62% supporting the recent military action there and 50% approving of his handling of the country. The second bright spot is the economy, with 56% of Americans saying they're satisfied about the current state of the economy -- the highest percentage on this question since 2001. But there's an interesting thing going on with those economic numbers: Republicans are MUCH MORE satisfied about the economy (going from 34% on this question in 2015 to 66% now), while Democrats are pretty much unchanged (from 52% in 2015 to 47% now). And it raises the question: Is the economy really different today than where it was two years ago? Or is the only real difference who's sitting in the White House?Gorsuch nomination is Trump's main feat in first 100 days, analyst says  3:46autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogWho's popular and who isn'tThe NBC/WSJ poll measured the popularity of key politicians and institutions. Here is how they rank — from most popular to least popular:Federal Bureau of Investigation: 47% positive, 18% negative (+29)Planned Parenthood: 50% positive, 28% negative (+22)Barack Obama: 52% positive, 33% negative (+19)Neil Gorsuch: 30% positive, 17% negative (+13)National Rifle Association: 45% positive, 33% negative (+12)Ivanka Trump: 33% positive, 31% negative (+2)Mike Pence: 38% positive, 39% negative (-1)Democratic Party: 34% positive, 39% negative (-5)Donald Trump: 39% positive, 50% negative (-11)Republican Party: 31% positive, 47% negative (-16)Paul Ryan: 22% positive, 40% negative (-18)Two quick observations: One (and we've said this before), Planned Parenthood and the NRA are MUCH more popular than the Washington rhetoric from Republicans or Democrats would suggest. Two, 19% of Republicans and Trump voters have a negative view of Ryan, which helps explain his increased unpopularity in this survey.Trump retreats on the border wall — at least for nowNBC's Leigh Ann Caldwell: "President Donald Trump has indicated that he's willing to back away from his demand that a government funding bill include money to build a wall on the Southern border, a move that could help clear the way for Congress to avoid a shutdown. A senior administration official tells NBC News that the president is open to obtaining funding for the border wall in the regular appropriations process for 2018 later this year instead of insisting it be included as part of the large spending bill to keep the government's lights on past this week. Such a development would be welcome news on Capitol Hill as congressional negotiators struggled to work past the administration's demands that few members wanted." Remember, White House Reince Priebus telegraphed this on "Meet the Press" Sunday, when he said the administration was looking for more border SECURITY funds, not necessarily border WALL funds.Trump at 100 daysBe sure not to miss these two pieces on Trump's first 100 days in office. NBC's Benjy Sarlin: "[H]e has made no progress on major legislation, a development that's especially troubling for a White House with unified control of government. His one significant item on the Hill, health care reform, crashed and burned. Instead, the president's had to settle for more limited victories via executive orders, along with a successful Supreme Court pick that unified his party... But supporters say such judgments are premature, not to mention off base. They describe the White House as a work in progress that's made a number of less-heralded moves that could pay off down the line."And here's Michael Kruse writing for Politico: "Trump has perfected a narrative style in which he doesn't merely obscure reality—he tries to change it with pronouncements that act like blaring, garish roadside billboards. Unrelenting in telling his own story, he has defined himself as a success no matter what—by talking the loudest and the longest, and by insisting on having the first word and also the last. And it's worked. Again and again, throughout his adult life, Trump in essence has managed to succeed without actually succeeding." Succeeding without actually succeeding…Politico: Obama wasn't telling whole story on prisoner swap with Iran"When President Barack Obama announced the 'one-time gesture' of releasing Iranian-born prisoners who "were not charged with terrorism or any violent offenses" last year, his administration presented the move as a modest trade-off for the greater good of the Iran nuclear agreement and Tehran's pledge to free five Americans," Politico writes. "But Obama, the senior official and other administration representatives weren't telling the whole story on Jan. 17, 2016, in their highly choreographed rollout of the prisoner swap and simultaneous implementation of the six-party nuclear deal, according to a POLITICO investigation... In reality, some of them were accused by Obama's own Justice Department of posing threats to national security."Trump's dayAt 11:20 am ET, President Trump gives remarks at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum's National Days of Remembrance… And at 3:00 pm ET, he participates in a roundtable with farmers.What were other presidents doing on April 25?
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/first-read-s-morning-clips-100-days-controversy-n750581
First Read’s Morning Clips: 100 Days of ControversyTRUMP AGENDA: 100 days of controversiesNBC's Sam Petulla lays out just how historically unpopular Trump is so far.And NBC's Andrew Rafferty sums up the controversies of Trump's first 100 days.The New York Times, on Trump's double standard for grading his opening months: "Trump Wants It Known: Grading 100 Days Is 'Ridiculous' (but His Were the Best)"One of us(!) has even more data from our latest poll: on health care, immigration, free trade and more.The big development for shutdown watchers, from Leigh Ann Caldwell: "President Donald Trump has indicated that he's willing to back away from his demand that a government funding bill include money to build a wall on the Southern border, a move that could help clear the way for Congress to avoid a shutdown. A senior administration official tells NBC News that the president is open to obtaining funding for the border wall in the regular appropriations process for 2018 later this year instead of insisting it be included as part of the large spending bill to keep the government's lights on past this week."What's going on with Trump's tax proposals? The New York Times has you covered here.More, from the Washington Post: "President Trump is pursuing a drastic cut in the corporate tax rate, a move that is likely to grow the national debt and breach a long-held Republican goal of curbing federal borrowing. The president has instructed advisers to propose cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent, according to White House officials who said they were not authorized to speak publicly about the plan. The rate reduction — which independent budget experts say could cost the federal government $2.4 trillion over a decade — is larger than what House Republicans had proposed in their own plan."And the Wall Street Journal lays out five roadblocks in the way of the White House's proposal.Trump plans to impose a 20% tariff on Canadian softwood-lumber imports, writes the Wall Street Journal. More: "In the lead-up to the decision on lumber duties, U.S.-Canada trade watchers said the Trump administration's move on timber could serve as an opening gambit in laying out what he wants Canada to put on the table as part of the North American Free Trade Agreement renegotiations, which have yet to begin in earnest."Paul Ryan is under growing pressure to deliver a win for Trump, POLITICO writes.OFF TO THE RACES: Perriello gets nod from Elizabeth Warren; Northam up with first adGA-06: Jon Ossoff's campaign is boosting its field spending, Roll Call notes.MT-AL: Greg Gianforte is calling opponent Rob Quist "Nancy Pelosi in a cowboy hat."VA-GOV: Tom Perriello has picked up the endorsement of Elizabeth Warren.Ralph Northam is up with his first ad, emphasizing that he'll fight Trump.TX-23: The Washington Post looks at Rep. Will Hurd's big re-election challenge.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/fbi-issues-clarification-comey-testimony-huma-abedin-emails-n757071
FBI Issues Clarification On Comey Testimony of Huma Abedin EmailsFBI Director James Comey grossly overstated to Congress the number of emails Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin forwarded to husband Anthony Weiner while working at the State Department, the FBI said in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.The letter was released just moments before the White House announced President Donald Trump had dismissed Comey.Comey told the panel last week that Abedin forwarded "hundreds and thousands of emails" to her spouse, to print when Clinton served as secretary of state."Somehow, her emails were being forwarded to Anthony Weiner, including classified information," he said.But a clarification sent from the FBI on Tuesday said only two email chains containing classified information were manually forwarded from Abedin to Weiner. Ten other chains with classified information were also found on Weiner's laptop, but are believed to be the product of a backup of her personal electronic device.All 12 of the email chains had previously been discovered during the FBI's investigation, the letter stated.The discovery of Comey's misstatement was first reported by ProPublica.Comey revealed the seemingly new information while defending his decision to renew the FBI investigation into Clinton's private email server just days before the 2016 presidential campaign. Less than two weeks before election day, the FBI informed Congress new Clinton emails had been found on a laptop belonging to Weiner.Though Clinton was again cleared of any criminal wrongdoing before Election Day, Democrats pointed to the surprise announcement as part of the reason why she was defeated.Comey said at the hearing it makes him "mildly nauseous" to think he played a role in the outcome of the election.Clinton also pointed to the Oct. 28 letter as major factor in her stunning loss."If the election had been on October 27, I would be your president," she said at a forum last week.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/trump-holding-his-base-he-s-losing-nearly-everyone-else-n750071
Trump Is Holding On to His Base — But He’s Losing Nearly Everyone ElseTrump holds on to his base — but is losing nearly everyone elseThe good news for President Trump in the latest NBC/WSJ poll is that he's still holding on to Republicans and his most committed supporters. In the poll, 82% of Republican respondents, 90% of self-described Trump voters, and 56% of white working-class Americans approve of the president's job as Trump approaches his 100th day in office on Saturday. But here's the bad news for him: He's lost nearly everyone else in his first three months. The NBC/WSJ poll shows that just 7% of Democrats, 30% of independents, and 34% of college-educated whites give Trump's job a thumbs-up.Overall, the president's job-approval rating stands at 40% — the lowest ever in the history of the NBC/WSJ for a new president. And this base-vs.-everyone else contrast shouldn't be a surprise, given that Trump's outreach has been aimed more his supporters (see his appearance this Friday before NRA and his rally Saturday in Pennsylvania) than at his opponents or those in the middle. But what should concern the Trump White House and GOP is that all new presidents hold on to their bases. Check out these numbers for Barack Obama from the Oct. 2010 NBC/WSJ poll right before the 2010 midterms (in which Democrats suffered historic losses):Overall Obama approval: 45%Among Democrats: 81%Among Republicans: 11%Among independents: 32%So what's remarkable about Trump's start is how quickly and sharply he's lost independents and the opposition. He's on Day 95, and his numbers are equal to -- or worse than -- Obama's on the brink of the 2010 midterms.NBC NewsPutting Trump's job rating into historical perspectiveNot only is Trump's 40% job rating the worst for a new president in the history of the NBC/WSJ poll; it's the worst rating — period — for a newly elected president approaching his first 100 days since the 1950s.Eisenhower: 73% (April 1953)Kennedy: 78% (April 1961)Nixon: 61% (April 1969)Carter: 63% (April 1977)Reagan: 67% (April 1981)Bush 41: 58% (April 1989)Clinton: 52% (April 1993)Bush 43: 57% (April 2001)Obama: 61% (April 2009)Trump: 40% (April 2017)Note: Pre-Clinton numbers are from Gallup; Clinton and beyond are from NBC/WSJ.An erosion in Trump's numbers, especially when it comes to some of his top perceived qualitiesThe new NBC/WSJ poll also shows an erosion in some of Trump's top perceived qualities, with 50% of respondents giving Trump high marks for being firm and decisive in his decision-making — down from the 57% who gave him high marks here in February. Another 39% of Americans give him high marks for changing business as usual in Washington — down from 45% two months ago. In addition, 39% give him high marks for being effective and getting things done — down from 46% who said this back in February. And only 25% give him high marks for being honest and trustworthy — down from 34%. Meanwhile, Trump's standing is mostly unchanged when it comes to his perceived weaknesses: Just 27% give him high marks for being knowledgeable and experienced enough to handle the presidency, and only 21% give him high marks for having the right temperament.RIP, Tea Party: A record number of Americans say government "should do more"And this is another striking finding from the NBC/WSJ poll: 57% of the public says that the government should do more to solve problems and meet the needs of Americans, versus 39% who said the government is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals. That's the highest share yearning for a more active government since the poll began asking voters about the role of government in 1995. And it's a significant shift even since 2015, when 50% said that the government should do more while 46% complained that it was too active. More NBC/WSJ poll numbers are coming out later today.Priebus says he believes the government won't shut downWith funding for the federal government expiring on Friday, April 28, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus expressed optimism on "Meet the Press" yesterday that Congress will keep the government from avoiding a shutdown.TODD: Government's going to stay open?PRIEBUS: I believe it will.TODD: All right, we'll hold you to it.Maybe more interestingly, Priebus talked about securing more money for "border security" rather than money from Trump's border wall -- which Democrats and some Republicans oppose. "I'm pretty confident we're going to get something that is satisfactory to the president in regard to border security within current negotiations," he said.Pelosi: Yes, you can oppose abortion and be a DemocratFrom NBC's Kailani Koenig: "Democratic House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi says that it's absolutely possible for someone to be a member of the Democratic Party and also be against abortion. 'Of course,' she told Chuck Todd when asked on Sunday's 'Meet The Press.'" More: "'I have served many years in Congress with members who have not shared my very positive — my family would say aggressive — position on promoting a woman's right to choose.' Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez and Independent Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders received backlash this week from abortion-rights groups since they scheduled a rally with a mayoral candidate in Omaha, Nebraska, who previously supported an abortion-related ultrasound bill."It's Macron vs Le Pen in FranceFrom the AFP: "Pro-European centrist Emmanuel Macron and anti-immigration leader Marine Le Pen began a final duel for the French presidency Monday, after a first round of voting delivered a stunning blow to the traditional political class. Macron is the clear favourite to become France's youngest-ever president after topping Sunday's ballot with 23.75 percent of votes, slightly ahead of National Front (FN) leader Le Pen on 21.53 percent." The runoff is May 7.Barack is back"Former President Barack Obama will return to his adopted home on Monday for his first public event since leaving the White House, holding a conversation with six young people in front of an audience at the University of Chicago," the New York Times writes. "Mr. Obama has spent the three months since Inauguration Day on an extended vacation even as his staff begins setting up an office in Washington and planning continues on his presidential library in Chicago. He is also starting to work on a memoir. But on Monday, the former president will begin a series of public appearances in the United States and Europe."Trump's dayAt 10:00 am ET, President Trump holds a video conference with NASA astronauts aboard the space station.What were other presidents doing on April 22?Barack Obama rejects calls for a "truth commission" investigating enhanced interrogation tacticsGeorge W. Bush huddles with congressional leaders as lawmakers close in on a bipartisan tax cut dealBill Clinton looks to regroup after the defeat of his jobs bill creates a stumbling block shortly before his 100 day markGeorge H.W. Bush attends a memorial for the 47 crewmen killed in the explosion of the USS Iowa.Ronald Reagan lifts the grain embargo against the Soviet UnionA new poll shows that a narrow majority of Americans believes Jimmy Carter's warning of a major energy crisis
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/public-gives-trump-low-marks-first-100-days-nbc-news-n749756
Public Gives Trump Low Marks for First 100 Days: NBC News/WSJ PollNearly two-thirds of Americans give President Donald Trump poor or middling marks for his first 100 days in office, including a plurality who say he's off to a "poor start," according to results from a brand-new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll.NBC NewsForty-five percent of respondents in the survey believe Trump is off to a poor start, with an additional 19 percent who say it's been "only a fair start." That's compared with a combined 35 percent who think the president's first three months in office have been either "good" or "great."Trump's 100th day in office takes place on April 29.By contrast, in the exact same question from April 2009 NBC/WSJ poll, 54 percent of Americans said that Barack Obama's first 100 days had gotten off to either a good or great start, while 25 percent said they were fair, and 21 percent called them poor.Trump's overall job-approval rating stands at 40 percent — down four points from February. It's the lowest job-approval rating for a new president at this 100-day stage in the history of the NBC/WSJ poll.NBC NewsAt this same point in time of their presidencies, Obama's overall rating stood at 61 percent in the poll, George W. Bush's was at 56 percent and Bill Clinton's was at 52 percent.By party, 82 percent of Republicans approve of Trump's job, versus just 7 percent of Democrats and 30 percent of independents who give the president a thumbs-up.NBC NewsForty percent of Americans approve of Trump's handling of foreign policy, while 44 percent approve of his economic handling.Asked if Trump's first 100 days have been more effective or less effective than his predecessors' starts, 44 percent said Trump's beginning has been less effective, and 32 percent said it had been more effective; 22 percent said it's been about as effective.And 46 percent say that Trump's leadership and plans for the country make them feel more hopeful, versus 52 percent who say they make them feel more doubtful.That's a significant departure from April 2009, when 64 percent of Americans said that Obama's leadership and plans had made them feel more hopeful, while 30 percent were more doubtful.Erosion in Trump's numbersThe new NBC/WSJ poll also shows an erosion in some of Trump's top perceived qualities, with 50 percent of respondents giving Trump high marks for being firm and decisive in his decision-making - down from the 57 percent who gave him high marks here in February.Another 39 percent of Americans give him high marks for changing business as usual in Washington - down from 45 percent two months ago.Thirty-nine percent give him high marks for being effective and getting things done - down from 46 percent who said this back in February.And only 25 percent give him high marks for being honest and trustworthy - down from 34 percent.Meanwhile, his standing is mostly unchanged when it comes to his perceived weaknesses: Just 27 percent give him high marks for being knowledgeable and experienced enough to handle the presidency, and only 21 percent give him high marks for having the right temperament.Sixty-Two percent support Trump's military action in SyriaThe best news for President Trump in the poll is on the issue of Syria.Sixty-two percent of Americans say they support the Trump administration's recent military action in response to the Syrian government's chemical-weapon attack against its own people.By party, 88 percent of Republicans, 43 percent of Democrats and 58 percent of independents back that recent military action.And 50 percent of all Americans say they approve of Trump's handling of Syria - 10 points higher than his overall approval rating.The NBC/WSJ poll was conducted April 17-20 of 900 adults, including more than 400 who were interviewed by cell phone. The poll's overall margin of error is plus-minus 3.3 percentage points.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/trump-hires-law-firm-rebut-suggestion-russia-business-ties-n757106
Trump Hires Law Firm to Fight Suggestions of Russia Business TiesPresident Donald Trump has hired a Washington law firm to send a letter to a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee saying he has no connections to Russia, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday.Spicer's revelation was in response to a question from reporters on a briefing about committee member Sen. Lindsey Graham's remarks that he wants to look into whether Trump has any business dealings with Russia."The president, obviously, was aware of Senator Graham's suggestion after he made it today and he's fine with that. He has no business in Russia. He has no connections to Russia. So he welcomes that," Spicer said."In fact, he is already charged a leading law firm in Washington, D.C., to send a certified letter to Senator Graham to that point that he has no connections to Russia," Spicer said.The announcement that Trump had retained a lawyer to deal with the Russia probe came just hours before the news broke that he'd fired FBI Director James Comey, who was leading an investigation into the administration's Russian ties.Related: Trump Fires FBI Director James Comey Over Email InvestigationGraham, a Republican who ran against Trump in the early days of the presidential campaign and has broken with him on several issues, said earlier Tuesday that he has no evidence of improper business ties Trump and the Russians, but he said he wanted to know if any business ties exist."I have no evidence that the Trump business organization did anything illegal with the Russians. I have no evidence of collusion. But do I want to know about business ties? Yes," Graham, who represents South Carolina, told reporters.Graham's comments come a day after a hearing before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee in which former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates testified that she warned the Trump administration that then-national security adviser Michael Flynn could be blackmailed by the Russian government because he misled the vice president about his "problematic" conduct.Flynn misled officials, NBC News and others have reported, by saying he hadn't discussed Obama administration sanctions on Russia in conversations with Russia's ambassador before Trump was inaugurated.Flynn resigned in February over what he called "incomplete information" he inadvertently gave to the vice president-elect and others about the phone calls with the ambassador. Trump said at the time he fired Flynn for misleading Vice President Mike Pence.President Barack Obama personally warned Trump against hiring Flynn, NBC News reported Monday. Flynn was director of the Defense Intelligence Agency under Obama until he was pushed out in 2014.The U.S. intelligence community believes Russia was involved in a covert campaign to interfere in the 2016 presidential election. Russia has repeatedly denied the claim.Trump and other Republicans have acknowledged Russia was likely involved but have said they believe the alleged attempt had no effect on the outcome.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/here-s-why-chances-government-shutdown-just-went-n749271
Here’s Why the Chances of a Government Shutdown Just Went UpThe chances of a government shutdown just went upAfter all of the news over the past week — North Korea, the special congressional election in Georgia, the White House trying to resuscitate health care (again) — this could be the story that drives the weekend and next week: The chances of a government shutdown just increased. "White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said Thursday that he hopes to use negotiations to keep the government open past April 28 in an effort to force Democrats to back some funding for creating a new wall along the U.S.-Mexico border," the Washington Post writes. "Mulvaney said the White House would be open to funding some of the Democrats' priorities — such as paying insurance subsidies under the Affordable Care Act — if Democrats agree to fund some of the more controversial parts of President Trump's agenda, notably the border wall."If this is the White House's position, it could be precarious: Democrats (and even some Republicans) are opposed to spending money for Trump's border wall. And with Republicans enjoying just a 52-48 majority in the Senate, they will need Democratic help to get 60 votes. Given this math, a budget showdown is eventually coming, but the thinking had been that it would get punted until the fall. But a border-wall demand — now — could produce that showdown sooner rather than later.Trump White House gets imprisoned Egyptian-American releasedMeanwhile, here's a definite accomplishment for the White House: "An Egyptian American charity worker who was imprisoned in Cairo for three years and became the global face of Egypt's brutal crackdown on civil society returned home to the United States late Thursday after the Trump administration quietly negotiated her release," the Washington Post says. "President Trump and his aides worked for several weeks with Egyptian President Abdel Fatah al-Sissi to secure the freedom of Aya Hijazi, 30, a U.S. citizen, as well as her husband, Mohamed Hassanein, who is Egyptian, and four other humanitarian workers. Trump dispatched a U.S. government aircraft to Cairo to bring Hijazi and her family to Washington." More: "The Obama administration unsuccessfully pressed Sissi's government for their release. It was not until Trump moved to reset U.S. relations with Egypt by embracing Sissi at the White House on April 3 ... that Egypt's posture changed."Sarah Palin on Fox News: 'Corporate culture there obviously has to change'  2:51autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogA president with lots of free time at his disposalEvery recent American president has received criticism for extracurricular activities — whether it was Barack Obama's rounds of golf or George W. Bush's brush-clearing trips to Crawford, TX. But what's extraordinary about President Trump's extracurricular activities is that they've taken place so early in his tenure (today is his 92nd on the job), and that they've come before he's made progress on his top policy goals. Consider how the president has used his time:He's made seven trips to his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida since becoming the nation's 45th president.Trump has participated in numerous rounds of golf at Mar-a-Lago and elsewhere.This week alone, he tweeted seven times about the GA-6 special election.He spent hours with Sarah Palin, Ted Nugent, and Kid Rock at the White House. "During dinner, which ended with flaming baked Alaska in honor of Ms. Palin … the president and his guests engaged in a wide-ranging conversation that Mr. Nugent said included the following topics: 'health, fitness, food, rock 'n' roll, Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley, secure borders, the history of the United States, guns, bullets, bows and arrows, North Korea, Russia' and a half-dozen other issues," the New York Times writes.And Americans are starting to take notice. According to a Quinnipiac poll released Thursday, 50 percent of Americans say Trump is NOT spending enough time at the White House, versus 38 percent who say he's spending the "right amount of time," and just 2 percent who say he's spending TOO much time.On Trump's meeting at Mar-a-Lago with two former Colombia presidents trying to sink that country's peace dealSpeaking of Trump's Mar-a-Lago, this is a striking story that highlights the conflicts of interest his resort poses. The Miami Herald: "President Donald Trump quietly met a pair of former Colombian presidents last weekend at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, thrusting his administration into an ugly power struggle in Latin America that threatens to undermine the country's controversial peace agreement with rebel leaders. "The meeting between Trump and the former presidents, Álvaro Uribe and Andrés Pastrana — Colombia news media have reported it was arranged by an influential U.S. critic of the plan, Republican U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida — was not on the president's schedule and was not disclosed to reporters who traveled with him to Palm Beach."More: "The undisclosed meeting also raises a number of questions about the ease with which people trying to influence Trump can access him through membership in his club without fear of public disclosure; a Mar-a-Lago membership costs $200,000 for the initiation alone."Attorney General Sessions: 'I really am amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific' can stop Trump's travel banIt isn't every day when the sitting attorney general of the United States attacks the judiciary. But check out what Jeff Sessions told conservative radio host Mark Levin this week, as CNN first reported: "'We've got cases moving in the very, very liberal Ninth Circuit, who, they've been hostile to the order,' Sessions said. 'We won a case in Virginia recently that was a nicely-written order that just demolished, I thought, all the arguments that some of the other people have been making. We are confident that the President will prevail on appeal and particularly in the Supreme Court, if not the Ninth Circuit. So this is a huge matter. I really am amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific can issue an order that stops the President of the United States from what appears to be clearly his statutory and Constitutional power.'"A judge sitting on an island in the Pacific? Hawaii's two U.S. senators took offense with that characterization. "Mr. Attorney General: You voted for that judge. And that island is called Oahu. It's my home. Have some respect," tweeted Sen. Brian Schatz (D-HI). Added Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-HI): "Hey Jeff Sessions, this #IslandinthePacific has been the 50th state for going on 58 years. And we won't succumb to your dog whistle politics."Is it Trump vs. Obama in France's election?Finally, don't miss what APPEARS to be dueling near-endorsements that Barack Obama and Donald Trump have made in France's upcoming election. First from Obama's office yesterday: "President Obama spoke on the phone to Emmanuel Macron this morning. President Obama appreciated the opportunity to hear from Mr. Macron about his campaign and the important upcoming presidential election in France, a country that President Obama remains deeply committed to as a close ally of the United States, and as a leader on behalf of liberal values in Europe and around the world. An endorsement was not the purpose of the call, as President Obama is not making any formal endorsement in advance of the run-off election on Sunday."And then this tweet from Donald Trump today: "Another terrorist attack in Paris. The people of France will not take much more of this. Will have a big effect on presidential election!" he tweeted (and you could argue this was aimed at helped Marine Le Pen).What were other presidents doing on April 21?Barack Obama meets with King Abdullah II of JordanGeorge W. Bush meets with Mexican president Vincente Fox and addresses the Summit of the Americas in Quebec CityBill Clinton faces a major legislative setback when the Senate abandons his stimulus packageGeorge. H.W. Bush extends economic sanctions against NicaraguaA still-recovering Ronald Reagan meets with governors behind closed doors to plug his tax programCritics assail Jimmy Carter's new energy policy
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/democrats-path-house-majority-runs-through-sunbelt-n748781
The Democrats’ Path to a House Majority Runs Through the SunbeltThe Democrats' path to retaking the House goes through the SunbeltAs we wrote yesterday, the GA-06 battle tells us something much bigger about how both parties are being realigned. Non-rural districts in the American Sunbelt -- either suburbs or chunks of cities that have historically swung red -- are most likely where the battle for the House will play out in 2018. And there are plenty of pickup opportunities for Democrats in these areas, too. Out of a total of 97 districts where Republican members won in 2016 but where Trump received less than 55% of the vote (including GA-06), 38 are located in the Sunbelt. Democrats need to pick up 24 House seats to take back control of the U.S. House of Representatives.AZ-02 Martha McSallyAZ-06 David SchweikertCA-04 Tom McClintockCA-08 Paul CookCA-10 Jeff DenhamCA-21 David ValadaoCA-22 Devin NunesCA-25 Steve KnightCA-39 Ed RoyceCA-42 Ken CalvertCA-45 Mimi WaltersCA-48 Dana RohrabacherCA-49 Darrell IssaCA-50 Duncan HunterFL-15 Dennis RossFL-16 Vern BuchananFL-18 Brian MastFL-25 Mario Diaz-BalartFL-26 Carlos CurbeloFL-27 Ileana Ros-LehtinenGA-06 (vacant)GA-07 Rob WoodallNC-02 George HoldingNC-09 Robert PittengerNC-13 Tedd BuddNM-02 Steve PearceSC-01 Mark SanfordTX-02 Ted PoeTX-03 Sam JohnsonTX-06 Joe BartonTX-07 John Culberson,TX-10 Michael McCaulTX-21 Lamar SmithTX-22 Pete OlsonTX-23 Will HurdTX-24 Kenny MarchantTX-31 John CarterTX-32 Pete SessionsIn all but 11 of those, Trump either lost the district or won it by 10 points or less. Now, some of these incumbents are more endangered than others, and the dynamics in individual districts are sure to change as we learn more about how each race is shaping up. But this isn't a bad list for Democrats to start with -- and it doesn't even include some of the most obvious targets in affluent suburban GOP districts in the rest of the country (like Virginia or New Jersey).Montana Dems: Where's the national cavalry to help in the May 25 special election?The next big special congressional election -- in Montana on May 25 -- gets treatment from the New York Times, which has local Democrats wondering why the national party hasn't gotten involved yet to help Dem nominee Rob Quist. "National folks should be coming in here," Gov. Steve Bullock told the Times. "It is a winnable race." More: "[Republican Greg] Gianforte is leading the race, according to private surveys that both parties have conducted, although a Democratic group, House Majority PAC, was to gauge the race with a new poll this week. While Mr. Trump remains more popular here than in most states, there is ample anti-Trump energy on the left: Organizers estimated that as many as 10,000 people turned out in 20-degree weather for the January Women's March in Helena, a gathering Mr. Bullock said was the largest crowd ever to rally in front of the state capitol."Atlanta residents, get ready for more TV ads coming your wayMeanwhile, the Atlanta-Journal Constitution has the latest on the GA-06 runoff. "More than $14 million worth of ads have already flooded Georgia's 6th District. And with a June 20 runoff looming, outside groups are readying another volley. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a super PAC with ties to Paul Ryan, was quick out the gates with a digital spot that depicts Ossoff as a creation of Nancy Pelosi. It's one of a string of advertisements linking Ossoff to the House Democratic leader, who polls abysmally in the conservative-leaning north Atlanta district."Judge Curiel is back in the newsGuess who's overseeing the case against the DREAM Act beneficiary who says he was wrongly deported by the Trump administration? Gonzalo Curiel -- in a plot twist worthy of a TV-series drama. As NBC's Kristen Welker reported on "Today" this morning, "He's the judge, who then candidate Trump thrust into the headlines saying, 'I have a judge who is a hater of Donald Trump, a hater, he's a hater. His name is Gonzalo Curiel.' The world first met Judge Curiel last year when he oversaw a lawsuit against Trump University and became the target of Trump's scathing and frequent attacks. 'The judge was appointed by Barack Obama, federal judge. I mean frankly he should recuse himself'… 'I believe he happens to be Spanish, which is fine, he's Hispanic, which is fine and we haven't asked for a recusal which we may do, but we have a judge that's very hostile, should have been thrown out.'"CBS poll: 61% believe marijuana should be legalAs the Trump administration has stepped up its rhetoric against marijuana use, a new CBS poll finds that support for marijuana legalization is at an all-time high. "Sixty-one percent of Americans think marijuana use should be legal, a five-point increase from last year and the highest percentage ever recorded in this poll. Eighty-eight percent favor medical marijuana use. Seventy-one percent oppose the federal government's efforts to stop marijuana sales and its use in states that have legalized it, including opposition from most Republicans, Democrats, and independents. "Will other House members follow Chaffetz's lead?It's not every day when a congressional committee chairman — from a safe seat, mind you — announces he's not going to run for re-election. But that's exactly what Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) did yesterday. Now it appears that Chaffetz might be eyeing running for Utah governor (and getting out of DC isn't a bad recipe for that kind of gubernatorial run!). But it will be interesting to see if other House Republicans follow Chaffetz's lead given the current political environment.Trump's DayAt 3:50 pm ET, President Trump holds a bilateral news conference with Italian Prime Minister Gentiloni.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/inside-numbers-georgia-election-still-boost-dems-n748211
Inside the Numbers, the Georgia Election Is Still a Boost for DemsInside the numbers, Georgia election is still a boost for DemsThe headline from last night's high-profile special congressional election in Georgia was that Democrat Jon Ossoff fell just short of the 50% needed to avoid a runoff, and he now faces a clash against Republican Karen Handel on June 20. But there's arguably a much bigger story about last night: In the first two special congressional elections of the Trump Era, Democratic candidates are performing 10 to 20 points better than they did in 2016. Last night in Georgia, Ossoff grabbed 48% of the vote in the 18-candidate field — 10 points better than what the Democratic congressional candidate got against incumbent Republican Tom Price in the 2016 general election. And in Kansas last week, the Dem got 46% of the vote in that special election — 16 points higher than what another Dem nominee received in the district last November.Now some important caveats here: In 2016, you had well-known and well-financed incumbents (Tom Price, Mike Pompeo) running against also-rans, so the recent special congressional elections were bound to be closer than what we saw last November. Even so, the Democratic candidates in the last two weeks outperformed Hillary Clinton's 46.8% in GA-6 and 33% in KS-4, which all point to a big enthusiasm advantage Democrats enjoy right now. The question is: Can they sustain it — for the June 20runoff in Georgia, for the 2018 midterms, and even for the May 25 special in Montana (Republicans won that at-large district 56%-40% in 2016)?GA-6 in 2016: Tom Price 62%, Rodney Stooksbury 38%GA-6 in 2016 (presidential results): Trump 48%, Clinton 47%GA-6 in 2017 (initial round): Jon Ossoff 48%, Karen Handel 20%, Bob Gray 11%, Dan Moody 9%, Judson Hill 9%.KS-4 in 2016: Mike Pompeo 61%, Daniel Giroux 30%KS-4 in 2016 (presidential results): Trump 60%, Clinton 33%KS-4 in 2017: Ron Estes 53%, James Thompson 46%MT-AL in 2016: Ryan Zinke 56%, Denise Juneau 40%MT in 2016 (presidential results): Trump 57%, Clinton 36%MT-AL in 2017: ???The Ossoff-Handel runoff will be VERY competitiveLooking ahead to the June 20 runoff in GA-6, it's going to be very competitive. Just compare Ossoff's percentage (48.1%) with the combined percentage of the Top 4 GOP candidates (48.2%). Or compare the total percentage for all Democrats (48.9%), versus the percentage for all 11 Republicans in the field (51%). Still, with Ossoff getting 48% last night, you might give him the very slight edge heading into the runoff. And so Democrats need a win here; anything less will be a disappointment for them. Also, the race will be a good early test of what is worse — President Trump or House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi? Because Georgians are going to see a lot of TV ads in the next two months tying the nominees to both of these national politicians.GA-6 results further America's urban-vs.-rural political realignmentLooking at the BIG PICTURE of last night's special congressional election in Georgia, you could make a good case that the results furthered America's urban-vs.-rural political realignment. After all, GA-6 has come a long way from Newt Gingrich's congressional district to the place where Jon Ossoff got 48% of the vote last night. And it's a reminder that battle for control of the U.S. House in 2018 will likely take place in the American Sun Belt, where Democrats have a better chance of winning urban/suburban districts.Did Trump help or hurt Republicans last night?As for President Trump and his role in last night's Georgia election, he tweeted last night (at 12:09 am ET!!!), "Despite major outside money, FAKE media support and eleven Republican candidates, BIG "R" win with runoff in Georgia. Glad to be of help!" You can make the argument that Trump's GOTV tweets over the last 48 hours helped boost Republican turnout to keep Ossoff below 48%. But you could also argue that Trump's intervention helped Ossoff beat expectations. (How many really thought he'd get that close to 50%?)But here is one undeniable truth about last night: The GOP candidates who tied themselves to Trump did NOT do well. "Bob Gray made allegiance to Donald Trump the cornerstone of his campaign, and he may have suffered for it. He got about 10 percent of the vote and came under a barrage of criticism over his pro-Trump bona fides," the Atlanta Journal-Constitution writes. "And Bruce LeVell, head of Trump's diversity coalition, got less than 1 percent of the vote. He also put Trump at the center of his campaign, and even made a last-minute trek to the White House to visit with the president, who didn't endorse any candidate in the race." By the way, Handel tweeted this morning that Trump called her to congratulate her for making the runoff, per NBC's Kasie Hunt.Despite rhetoric, is Team Trump pretty much following Obama's foreign-policy playbook?The other big political news of the day: The Trump administration certified that Iran is complying with the nuclear deal, NBC's Andrea Mitchell reported on "Today" this morning, though Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said the administration is weighing whether to break the deal. The Trump administration admitting that Iran is complying with the nuclear deal -- despite so much GOP rhetoric to the contrary — is another reminder that, besides its rhetoric and firing off some cruise missiles in Syria, the Team Trump is still pretty much following the Obama playbook, at least when it comes to actions.Just askingA year ago, who thought Donald Trump would be president, and Bill O'Reilly and Roger Ailes out at FOX?Trump's DayAt 11:30 am ET, President Trump signs the Veterans Choice Program Extension Improvement Act, and he welcomes the New England Patriots to the White House at 2:30 pm ET.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-fires-fbi-director-james-comey-n757101
Trump Fires FBI Director James Comey Over Email InvestigationPresident Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey on Tuesday after senior Justice Department officials concluded that he'd mishandled the investigation of Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server while she was secretary of state."You are hereby terminated and removed from office, effective immediately," Trump told Comey in a personally signed letter obtained by NBC News.Deputy FBI Director Andy McCabe will take over temporarily as acting director, Attorney General Jeff Sessions told FBI employees in a message obtained by NBC News.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said in a statement that Trump acted "on the clear recommendations" of Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. He said a search for a new FBI director would begin "immediately."The FBI has been investigating allegations that people involved with Trump's presidential campaign had undisclosed ties to Russia. But during a brief meeting with NBC News in the Oval Office on Tuesday evening, Trump said the Russia probe wasn't a factor in his decision.The distinction is crucial, because Sessions signed off on Comey's dismissal even though he has recused himself from involvement in the investigation of Russia's ties to the presidential campaign.Trump said that while he'd had concerns about Comey for some time, it was the FBI's "clarification" of Comey's inaccurate Senate testimony last week about Clinton's email practices that raised new questions about the director's competence and judgment.Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters Tuesday night that Comey's inaccurate Senate testimony last week "showed that he was incapable of continuing to do his job.""Here's the bottom line: Comey had lost the confidence across the board, from House members, from Senate members, from rank-and-file members of the FBI and the American public," Sanders said.In his letter to Comey, the president wrote: "While I greatly appreciate your informing me, on three occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau."Independent counsel demandedRepublicans and Democrats alike said the dismissal called the FBI's independence into question, and many Democrats immediately called for appointment of an independent counsel to take over the Russia investigation."Everyone will suspect [a] coverup" otherwise, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York said at a hastily called news conference.The president responded on his personal Twitter account Tuesday night, saying Schumer himself had "recently" said he had no confidence in Comey.Cryin' Chuck Schumer stated recently, "I do not have confidence in him (James Comey) any longer." Then acts so indignant. #draintheswamp— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017In an interview with Bloomberg News in November, Schumer said it was "appalling" that Comey disclosed new developments in the FBI's investigation of Clinton's email practices shortly before Election Day."I do not have confidence in him any longer," he said at the time.Comey 'shocked' by surprise firingThe White House said the dismissal had already been in the works before the FBI acknowledged Comey's inaccurate testimony. But three senior FBI and Justice Department officials told NBC News that Comey was given no warning.Federal officials said Comey was in the FBI's Los Angeles operations center when he got a call notifying him that he had been fired. Employees in the office, aware of the news reports, gathered outside the center and gave him an ovation as he came out.Senior FBI officials who convened a conference call afterward were described as "stunned," officials told NBC News. They said Comey himself was "shocked."In his recommendation to fire Comey, also obtained by NBC News, Rosenstein specifically told Trump that Comey mishandled the overall investigation of the email scandal and that he was wrong to have announced last July that the Justice Department's investigation of Clinton's emails was being closed.Referring to Comey's statement on Oct. 28 that more Clinton emails had been found on a laptop computer belonging to Anthony Weiner, the husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin, Rosenstein wrote: "We do not hold press conferences to release derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation.""The FBI Director is never empowered to supplant federal prosecutors and assume command of the Justice Department," he wrote. "The way the Director handled the conclusion of the email investigation was wrong."Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said in a statement: "The effectiveness of the FBI depends upon the public trust and confidence. Unfortunately, this has clearly been lost."But Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont, a Democrat on the committee, called the move "shocking.""No one should accept President Trump's absurd justification that he is now concerned that FBI Director Comey treated Secretary Clinton unfairly," Leahy said in a statement. "This is nothing less than Nixonian."Rep. John Conyers of Michigan, ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, and the ranking Democrats on five Judiciary subcommittees sent a letter to Rosenstein and McCabe on Tuesday night demanding that the Justice Department and the FBI preserve all documents relating to both Comey's dismissal and the Russia investigation."The Trump administration cannot be allowed to interfere any further in this investigation," they wrote, adding: "Nothing less than the integrity of our leading independent law enforcement agency and the credibility of our democracy are at stake."No comment from Obama, ClintonRepresentatives of Clinton and former President Barack Obama said they had no immediate comment. But other Democrats calling for an independent investigation of the Trump campaign's alleged Russia ties included Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Bill Nelson of Florida and Jeff Merkley of Oregon.In case the need for an independent special prosecutor to investigate #TrumpRussia ties wasn’t clear enough already… it sure is now. https://t.co/G3yoovqi0a— Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) May 9, 2017Even as those calls mounted, the White House confirmed Tuesday night that the president would meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in the Oval Office on Wednesday.While the president has the legal authority to fire the FBI director, it has happened only once before, in 1993, when President Bill Clinton dismissed William Sessions after an internal watchdog found that he had improperly billed the FBI for personal spending.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/100-days-trump-police-n752281
100 Days of Trump and the PoliceWhile President Trump has not signed any major legislation during his first 100 days, his administration has taken several sweeping steps in the area of criminal justice, a clear effort to fulfill his campaign pledge to restore "law and order."Under Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the Justice Department moved swiftly to freeze or cancel police training and oversight programs developed under the Obama administration.Sessions formally instructed prosecutors to reassess those programs, reached through court-ordered consent decrees, in a memo last month. The Department also sought to block police reforms in Baltimore, a city beset by crime and policing controversies over the past few years, though a federal judge ruled it was too late to block the Obama-era reforms.Some police advocates welcomed the move, arguing that less federal intervention leaves room for police reform at the local level.In late March, Sessions wrote a memo ordering his top deputies to review the police reform agreements and consent decrees currently being enforced in various cities."They're not interested in consent decrees as a means of advancing policing," says Jim Bueerman, President of the Police Foundation.Stephen Loomis, who advocates for police as president of the Cleveland Police Union, argues that consent decrees are "very dangerous" because they interfere with the judgment and independence of officers on the ground."While the federal government may not want to pursue consent decrees, this actually creates an opportunity for state legislators to step up to the plate," says Bueerman, who also served a police chief in California.Under Sessions, the DOJ clearly wants states to take the lead.The memo on police reforms asserted the federal government should not have the "responsibility" to "manage non-federal law enforcement agencies."Civil rights advocates stress, however, that federal law explicitly calls on the feds to step in when citizens' rights are violated by the police."The consent decrees wouldn't be necessary if there had not already been an established pattern or practice of wrongdoing," says DeRay McKesson, a Black Lives Matter protester and former Baltimore mayoral candidate. It is true that federal judges typically must find discriminatory practices, or other wrongdoing, to order federal oversight for an entire police department.Kevin Davis, the Baltimore Police Commissioner working to carry out the reforms, says federal involvement is a plus."We believe a consent decree partnership with the Department of Justice makes us better, faster," he said on MSNBC's "The Point."No policy area has seen more efforts at execution action under Trump than immigration. There are major ideological divides about the wisdom of Trump's efforts, but few deny their impact."I think the Trump administration has made clear that they're going to take his campaign promises and turn them into reality," said Steven Choi, who runs the New York Immigration Coalition.The Trump administration has taken tangible steps towards expanding barriers on the US-Mexico border, limiting immigration from the Middle East, limiting refugee access, limiting asylum for foreigners, reducing legal options for undocumented workers inside the U.S., and pressuring local officials to carry out immigration enforcement.Several of those efforts have been temporarily blocked by federal judges, including the two high-profile travel bans and, this week, an order pressuring local officials. Those policies remain frozen in court until later trials resolve whether Trump exceeded his presidential authority.Presidents generally have very wide immigration powers, under the Constitution and Supreme Court precedent. Trump allies cite that fact to argue they will ultimately win most of these challenges, while critics say it shows just how far out of the mainstream Trump is already operating."This is an administration that is running when it should be walking," said Tom Jawetz, an immigration expert at the Center for American Progress, a center-left think tank.RELATED: This county flipped for Obama, then went for Trump. How do they feel now?Trump has issued more executive orders than the past two presidents. Some legal experts say that suggests he will soon reach his limit on what can be achieved alone, without Congress or crafting more comprehensive policy."I think that they've started by focusing on the priorities of immigration and violent crime," says the Urban Institute's Julie Samuels, "we're waiting to see what the broader charging practices will be, especially with respect to drug offenses."Sessions, a supporter of harsh mandatory minimum sentences for non violent drug offenses, could roll back further reforms that make such sentences more common."The writing's on the wall, but we haven't seen that much action that will lead to the big reversal in the federal prison population," Samuels said.The administration has created a task force on marijuana issues, which pit the typically conservative emphasis on leaving states alone against Sessions' stated desire to crack down on libertarian and liberal electorates that have voted to decriminalize marijuana.Sam Kamin, who studies marijuana regulation at the University of Denver, notes the DOJ is still holding its fire."A lot of the Obama lenience on marijuana could be undone by the Justice Department itself, without an act of Congress," he told MSNBC."While we've seen a number of Obama-era policies reverse, we haven't seen this one change," he explained.Ultimately, if the Trump administration wants to withstand judicial scrutiny and lock in any of its law and order agenda, from drug regulation to immigration, it will ultimately have to work with Congress on permanent policies, not simply executive actions.
http://www.nbcnews.com/business/business-news/biggest-threat-our-economy-political-climate-n750256
The Biggest Threat to Our Economy Is… the Political ClimateAlthough the Republican sweep of the White House and both chambers of Congress in November has gotten a lot of credit for the stock rally that followed, a significant number of Americans think those same politicians are the biggest threat the economy faces over the next six months.According to a new survey by Bankrate.com, "the political environment in Washington" was labeled the top economic threat by 38 percent of respondents, but this view is colored considerably by people's political affiliations.While just 28 percent of Republicans said the political climate is our greatest near-term economic threat, 52 percent of Democrats said the same."We can imagine that Democrats are concerned about the possibilities of a Republican-led Congress and Donald Trump," said Mark Hamrick, Bankrate's senior economic analyst.At the same time, he added, early setbacks indicated that even a unified government was having trouble getting legislation passed, which could be weighing on that 28 percent of Republicans. "There's plenty of concern to go around," he said.Educational DivideBankrate found a split along income and educational attainment lines, as well: While 56 percent of Americans with a college degree say politics pose the biggest economic threat, just 22 percent of those with a high school education or less do. Less-educated Americans are more likely to fear the economic effects of terrorism and a drop in the stock market.This difference in sentiment along partisan lines has cropped up in other recent surveys, as well. In a January report, Richard Curtin, director of surveys of consumers at the University of Michigan, wrote, "Consumers who self-identified as Democrats were the most optimistic and Republicans the least optimistic in June 2016… Following the election of Trump, the reverse was true as Republicans were the most optimistic and Democrats the least optimistic."A March Gallup poll found that Republican optimism about the economy has surged since the election, while Democratic sentiment has fallen. Seven in 10 Republican or right-leaning Americans told pollsters they feel good about how much money they have available to spend, up more than 25 percentage points since October. But among Democrats, that number fell from 66 percent to roughly half. Among both groups, the trend towards positive or negative accelerated after Donald Trump officially took office.Consumer ConfidenceIn that same time frame, more Democrats and fewer Republicans say they have cut back on their spending."Consumer confidence has been unusually high in the first part of 2017, and that may have been a reflection of expectations of a big fiscal stimulus from the Trump administration, which is now fading," said Barry Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings Institution."We're starting to see some signs of business lending or loan demand ease as those businesses look for further clarity on policy coming out of Washington," Hamrick said. "I think that on the margin, there's probably some increased consumer caution. There's also been a rebound in gasoline prices which takes some previously 'disposable' spending off the table," he pointed out, while sluggish wage growth continues to dog otherwise healthy job growth."This is really quite unusual," Curtin said. "Usually optimism and confidence go together, but now what we have is optimism and uncertainty."In today's economy, political polarization is affecting spending in unexpected ways.Tomorrow Is Another Day"Generally speaking, Americans, when we feel good about today but worried about tomorrow, we tend to spend," said Bryan Gildenberg, chief knowledge officer at Kantar Retail. "People, by and large, are feeling better about today, but as a group they're not certain about tomorrow," he said."Spending among consumers will be uneven across population groups and across products," Curtin said. "I think sales in the first quarter reflect that kind of unevenness."And if consumers' worry about the future comes into the present tense, expect spending to drop. " If people start feeling worse about now, that's when spending ratchets back," Gildenberg said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-calls-investigation-tax-day-protesters-tweets-election-over-n747101
Trump Calls for Investigation Into Tax Day Protesters, Tweets ‘Election Is Over!’President Donald Trump on Twitter Sunday lashed out against citizens who'd taken to the streets to exercise their First Amendment rights.While claiming that thousands of people who on Saturday demanded Trump finally release his full tax returns were "paid" protesters, Trump tweeted, "The election is over!""Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies," Trump tweeted a day after thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in more than 150 cities across the country.An hour after wishing his 28 million followers a Happy Easter, Trump hailed his November win and called out those making his undisclosed tax history an issue."I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?" Trump said on Twitter.I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2017Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2017The president then followed up by repeating an unsubstantiated claim he's made before that some of the protesters against him were "paid," an allegation that became popular in some right-wing circles in the build up to the 2016 presidential election, before noting that the election was "over."Trump himself used paid actors to pose as rally attendees during his campaign, and has talked at length about the election results since his victory while criticizing his former rival Hillary Clinton.More than four months after winning the presidency, Trump continued to attack Clinton at a rally in Nashville, Tennessee, this March.[Image: Image: People participate in a Tax Day protest on April 15, 2017 in New York City. Activists in cities across the nation are marching today to call on President Donald Trump to release his tax returns.]People participate in a Tax Day protest on April 15 in New York City.   Stephanie Keith / Getty ImagesThe Tax Day protesters called for Trump to release his tax returns — something nearly all major presidential candidates have done since the 1970s — and call on lawmakers to represent their interests over those of major corporations.Related: Tax Day Demonstrators Demand President Trump Produce Tax ReturnsTrump and his administration have repeatedly dismissed calls for him to release his taxes, first claiming he couldn't because he was being audited, then saying the issue was more of interest to journalists and liberal politicians.But a poll from the Pew Research Center in January found that more than two-thirds of all Americans believe the president has an obligation to release his tax returns.This is not the first time the president has tweeted such accusations in the wake of major demonstrations against him and his policies. On Nov. 10, Trump tweeted that protests against his victory were "unfair" and said "professional protesters, incited by the media" were turning out in the streets.Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 11, 2016And on Feb. 3, in the midst of major protests against Trump's first executive order on immigration, the president tweeted that "Professional anarchists, thugs and paid protesters are proving the point of millions of people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!"Professional anarchists, thugs and paid protesters are proving the point of the millions of people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/obama-focus-post-white-house-work-engaging-young-people-n750251
Obama to Focus Post-White House Work on Engaging Young PeopleFormer President Barack Obama said Monday that his post-White House work will focus heavily on encouraging young people to become politically involved during his first public event since leaving office."The single most important thing I can do is to help in any way I can prepare the next generation of leadership to take up the baton and to take their own crack at changing the world," Obama said at a forum at the University of Chicago.Obama listed off a number of issues he intends to work on, including gerrymandering, criminal justice reform, and money in politics. But inspiring young people, Obama said, is "the most important thing I can do for my next job."What is preventing us from tackling [challenges] and making more progress really has to do with our politics and our civic life," he said.Obama did not mention President Donald Trump, who is just days away from reaching his 100th day in office. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released Sunday found Trump's job approval rating at 40 percent, the lowest mark of any new president in the poll's history.The former president has largely avoided talking about his successor, but through a spokesman has denied Trump's claim that Obama ordered surveillance of Trump Tower and said he "fundamentally disagrees" with the Trump administration's temporary immigration ban from six Muslim-majority countries.Obama was surrounded by young people at the forum held near the future site of his presidential library on Chicago's South Side.The president heard from and took questions from the students interested in becoming more politically active. The discussion ranged from how to get more young people interested in current events, the changing landscape of the news media, and the issues that come with running for office at a time when so much is shared online."If you had pictures of everything I had done during high school, I probably wouldn't be president of the United States," Obama said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-s-mar-lago-travel-triggers-cost-ethics-concerns-n743541
Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Travel Triggers Cost and Ethics ConcernsPALM BEACH, Fla. — Before calling the White House home, Donald Trump used to wonder why any president would ever leave."If you're in the White House, who wants to take a vacation?" he once asked a campaign crowd in Spencer, Iowa. Noting the limited time a president has there, he criticized President Obama for vacationing "when there's so much work to be done.""You're in the White House," he said. "What's better than the White House? Why these vacations?"But since his January inauguration, President Trump has spent seven of 13 weekends at his Palm Beach, Florida estate. According to NBC News' estimates by Sunday Trump will have spent 28 percent of his term traveling to or staying at Mar-a-Lago. Trump hosted his second world leader at the "winter White House" last weekend, with Chinese President Xi Jinping joining Trump for meetings Thursday and Friday. Trump stayed the rest of the weekend, frequenting his nearby golf club on both days.Trump's trips to Mar-a-Lago: How much are they costing taxpayers?  4:23autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogIt's not just a question of travel time, but of ethics and cost efficiency, according to watchdog groups and ethics experts.While presidents have always traveled on the taxpayer's dollar — the Obamas were partial to Hawaii and Martha's Vineyard while President George W. Bush frequented his Crawford, Texas ranch — Trump's travel is "unprecedented," one expert says, because he's repeatedly visiting his own privately owned commercial property at Mar-a-Lago."It's just another example of his consistent efforts to exploit public office for private gain," ethics expert Steve Schooner told NBC News. "He's using his official office and the fact that people have to travel with him, meet him, and follow him to promote his commercial enterprise, in this case his privately owned club.""I can't think of anything like this that we've seen at anytime in the modern era," the George Washington Law School professor told NBC News. The Mar-a-Lago property is still owned by Trump, who placed his holdings in a trust overseen by his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and Trump Organization CFO Allen Weisselberg before assuming office, prompting Schooner to lament that the president "should have divested from his properties to begin with."Since Trump became president the cost of membership at Mar-a-Lago has doubled, with guests now paying $200,000 just to join."This is a privately owned club that for all intents and purposes was just another golf property in Florida before, that almost now is something that Americans immediately recognize," Schooner continued. "Imagine what you would have to pay to get that kind of brand recognition. That's extraordinary."[Image: Image: Trump and First Lady Melania Trump greet a marching band as they arrive at Trump International Golf club to watch the Super Bowl LI between New England Patriots and Atlanta Falcons in West Palm Beach, Florida, U.S.]President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump greet a marching band as they arrive at Trump International Golf club to watch Super Bowl LI between the New England Patriots and Atlanta Falcons in West Palm Beach, Florida on Feb. 5, 2017.  Carlos Barria / ReutersAside from concerns over who is profiting from Trump's trips, is the question of who's paying for them.Over two-dozen A-listers from Trump's administration have visited the property over the past three months, along with high-level job applicants, and even New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, among others. While passing the days in Palm Beach, Trump has been known to spend time at his nearby golf clubs, where he may or may not take the time to hit a few balls amidst meetings and phone calls.A White House official told NBC News that when President Trump travels to Mar-a-Lago "he is staying at his home, the Southern White House, and has minimal staff with him." Hotels and meals for those federal employees involved in the trips are covered by the government, according to the official.Even though Trump is, for the most part, working weekends, conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch thinks there are less costly ways to do it.RELATED: Government Accountability Office to Examine Cost, Security of Trump Florida TripsThey estimate the cost of a back-and-forth trip from Washington to Palm Beach at about $1 million, with Air Force One costing $142,380 per hour, according to information Judicial Watch says it obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request. Other estimates put each trip's price tag as high as $3 million.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has defended the travel, saying Mar-a-Lago "is where [Trump] goes to see his family. He brings people down there. This is part of being president."Trump is not the only president to rack up a high tab while traveling, however. Though the White House wouldn't say exactly how much Trump's trips cost him, estimates by the Government Accountability Office show that a weekend trip taken by President Obama in 2013 to Chicago and South Florida cost about $3.6 million.Still, Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton says the cost to taxpayers in either case is too high, calling for Trump "to try to figure out ways to save money for the taxpayer" and applauding him for using his Virginia golf clubs when he's looking to get away. Fitton doesn't question that Trump's working — "whenever a president travels, he's doing work," he says — but he does "question whether it's necessary to travel to a particular place to do the work."Fitton issued similar calls for cost awareness and transparency during the Obama years, noting now "a little bit of anti-Trump animus" in the media's criticism of Trump's presidential travel.The use of Mar-a-Lago to host foreign leaders, however, is justifiable in his eyes."It's the president's home," Fitton told NBC News. "It's probably a nice way to visit with leaders and get to know them and to do some important business with them. So it's not the end of the world that he hosts the president of China, or anyone else, down there."[Image: Image: The Mar-a-Lago Resort]The Mar-a-Lago Resort in West Palm Beach, Florida on Feb. 11, 2017.  Joe Raedle / Getty Images, fileIn addition to hosting President Xi, who did not stay at Mar-a-Lago during last weekend's bilateral summit, Trump personally gifted Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe a weekend-long stay at his hotel during their tete a tete several weeks ago.The cost of Trump's summit with President Xi hit hard on a local level, with the Palm Beach County community footing the bill, an estimated $1.5 million for Thursday and Friday's U.S.-China summit.Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw told NBC that each day President Trump spends in Mar-a-Lago costs his department $60,000.County Commissioner Dave Kerner noted Bradshaw's cost evaluations, making the point that with Trump governing from Palm Beach County, "it becomes a very significant financial burden on the taxpayers" here."While he may treat it like it's the Southern White House, it's not," Kerner said, worrying about skyrocketing costs that the county hadn't budgeted for. Kerner hopes for reimbursement from the federal government to offset the burgeoning bill of Trump's visits to the area and has even suggested turning Mar-a-Lago into a special taxing district that would impose a levy on the resort to pay the president's security costs, according to an Associated Press report.Democrats have also seized on Trump's travel, using it as a chance to call for increased transparency of who's visiting with Trump at Mar-a-Lago, as well as asking the Government Accountability Office to look into taxpayer costs and security measures related to Trump's use of the property.In the eight years of his presidency, Barack Obama's total travel costs were at least $97 million. At the current rate, the costs of President Trump's travel could well exceed that.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/panetta-warns-trump-be-careful-north-korea-n746666
Panetta: Trump Is Risking Nuclear War With North KoreaFormer Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta warned Friday that the strong rhetoric coming from President Donald Trump's administration toward North Korea could escalate tensions."The words from the administration are creating even higher volume in terms of the provocations that are going on. I think we have got to be careful here," Panetta told NBC News' Andrea Mitchell. "We should not engage in any precipitous action. There is a reason no U.S. president in recent history has pulled the trigger on North Korea."He added, "We have the potential for a nuclear war that would take millions of lives. So I think we have got to exercise some care here."RELATED: North Korea test will be when leader sees fitMultiple senior U.S. intelligence officials told NBC News the U.S. is prepared to preemptively strike North Korea if they learn the country is about to conduct a nuclear test. Pyongyang has said a "big event" is near."Well, there's no question that this is a tinderbox, has been for a long time, but we're at a time when there is a potential for provocation with the testing of this nuclear weapon," Panetta said. "And, you know, obviously the words from the administration are creating even higher volume in terms of the provocations that are going on.""You have got 20 million people in Seoul; that would be a target" of a potential North Korean attack, the former CIA director added. "We've just given China the opportunity to engage. Let's see how they do."Trump met last week at Mar-a-Lago with Chinese President Xi Jinping and said that he wanted to enlist his help in dealing with North Korea.Trump "seems pleased with what President Xi has committed to," Panetta noted."North Korea is behaving very badly. They have been 'playing' the United States for years. China has done little to help!" Trump tweeted last month before his meeting with Xi.North Korean leaders have accused Trump of "making trouble" with his threatening tweets.The nation's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper said North Korea was prepared to respond to any aggression by the United States."Our revolutionary strong army is keenly watching every move by enemy elements with our nuclear sight focused on the U.S. invasionary bases not only in South Korea and the Pacific operation theater but also in the U.S. mainland," it said.US prepared for preemptive action if North Korea conducts nuclear test  2:37autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogMeanwhile, the country's foreign minister said it will conduct its next nuclear test whenever its supreme headquarters sees fit.Vice Minister Han Song Ryol made the comments in an exclusive interview with The Associated Press in Pyongyang on Friday."That is something that our headquarters decides," Han said. "At a time and at a place where the headquarters deems necessary, it will take place."He also said the situation on the Korean Peninsula was in a "vicious cycle" as tensions with the U.S. and its allies deepen.In other developments in the region, Japan's National Security Council has discussed how to evacuate its nearly 60,000 citizens from South Korea in the event of a crisis, a government official said Friday amid rising concern over North Korea's nuclear weapons program, according to Reuters.Besides commercial ships and planes, Japan would want to send military aircraft and ships to assist in the evacuation if the South Korean government agreed, the official, familiar with the discussion, said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/here-comes-tv-ad-cavalry-help-trump-n740461
Here Comes the TV Ad Cavalry to Help TrumpTrump administration found 'loophole' to make Ivanka official adviser, analyst says  2:23autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogOn Day 70, TV ad cavalry rushes in to help TrumpThere have been so many remarkable/extraordinary/unprecedented developments in President Trump's first few weeks in office. Here's another: On his 70th day, the outside group Making America Great — financed by the conservative Mercer clan — begins airing a $1 million TV-ad campaign in 10 states and Washington DC to ostensibly help prop up Trump's declining poll numbers after his health-care defeat."Results — not common in Washington, DC," says the ad, which was first reported by Bloomberg's Josh Green. "298,000 new jobs 1st month in office. Reducing EPA regulations. Greenlighting Keystone XL pipeline. Withdrew from Trans-Pacific Partnership. And it's only just begun."Of course, what the ad DOESN'T say is arguably the real context. An approval rating at 35%, per Gallup. A failed health-care bill. A blocked travel ban (more on that below). The ad airs from today through April 3, and the 10 states are states Trump won where a Democratic senator is running for re-election in 2018. Here's the buy info, according to Advertising Analytics:DC: $183,585FL: $200,046IN: $66,677.50MO: $97,823MT: $7,420ND: $10,010OH: $87,092PA: $178,365WV: $30,615WI: $46,630.50Another way to view this: Someone who typically shunned TV-ad campaigns in the 2016 election is being helped by one 70 days into his presidency. And it's the earliest kind of re-election ad we've ever seen, even if it's not that big of a buy ($1 million for 10 states, plus DC).Rich Lowry: Trumpism isn't working because it really hasn't been tried yetWriting for Politico, the National Review's Rich Lowry attributes President Trump's struggles to the fact that his brand of populism really hasn't been tried yet, especially when it came to the failed health-care reform effort."[T]he product of the Ryan-Trump partnership on health care was a bill bizarrely at odds with a national election Republicans had just won on the strength of working-class voters. Under the GOP replacement, fewer people would have had coverage, and workers further down the income scale would have been particularly hard hit. For whatever reason, neither of these facts seemed to exercise the White House, at least not enough to try to do anything to fix them. Maybe Ryan doesn't 'get' the new political reality created by Trump's victory, as the president's boosters like to say. But what excuse does the president himself have for evidently not 'getting' it, either? His energies were taken up trying to placate the conservative House Freedom Caucus."Hawaii judge extends order blocking Trump's revised travel ban"A federal judge in Hawaii on Wednesday extended his previous ruling blocking President Donald Trump's so-called 'travel ban' that would have restricted entry to the United States by refugees and people from some predominantly Muslim countries," NBC News reports. "U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson granted a motion by the state to turn his temporary restraining order blocking Trump's revised executive order into a preliminary injunction. The move extends the ban on enforcement while the case moves forward.Your two Russia developments of the day: Be sure to read these two articles"Who is 'Source D'? The man said to be behind the Trump-Russia dossier's most salacious claim" - the Washington PostTrump Russia dossier key claim 'verified' -- the BBCBurr, Warner show House how it's doneAs Rep. Devin Nunes' (R-CA) actions over the past week have stalled things over at the House Intelligence Committee, the Senate Intel panel yesterday demonstrated that it's still functional."In a conspicuous show of bipartisanship during a fractious time at the Capitol, the top Republican and Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee vowed to forge ahead by interviewing key players connected to Mr. Trump and pressing intelligence agencies to provide all relevant information," the New York Times says. "But their display of collegiality seemed intended primarily as a contrast to the explosive and often bewildering statements in recent days from the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Representative Devin Nunes of California, whose perceived closeness with the Trump White House has raised doubts about his ability to conduct an impartial investigation." The Senate Intelligence Committee holds two open hearings on Russia today - at 10:00 am ET and 2:00 pm ET.It's official: China's Xi to meet with Trump at Mar-A-Lago April 6-7Per NBC's Peter Alexander, the White House released a statement saying that Chinese President Xi Jinping will meet with Trump April 6-7 at Mar-A-Lago in Florida.Trump, Ryan to punt on upcoming government-funding bill? It certainly looks that way.As we mentioned yesterday, Ryan doesn't want a fight over Planned Parenthood — at least not yet. "House Speaker Paul Ryan said Tuesday there was a better way to eliminate federal spending on Planned Parenthood than attaching it to a must-pass measure next month to keep the government open. Rather than include a 'defund Planned Parenthood provision on the upcoming bill to fund the federal government, the Wisconsin Republican said Republicans still plan to use their budget reconciliation framework to overhaul health care to stop federal money from flowing to the women's health service provider," Morning Consult reported. And then at yesterday's White House press briefing, Sean Spicer didn't explicitly say that funding for a border wall was non-negotiable.Q: The President talked a lot about it in the campaign, and in his budget request funding for a border wall on the southern border with Mexico. Is that a deal-breaker for the President in any sort of government funding measure in the next month or so?SPICER: So on April 29th, the CR expires -- the continuing resolution -- and we are going to be working with Congress on that -- on the FY17 budget that needs to go forward. I know Director Mulvaney has talked about that. I'm not going to get into the specific details. I know that, if you saw the budget they put out, I think it's $1.6 billion or $1.7 billion that he's initially put in the FY17 for the beginning of that wall, and there's $2.5, $2.6 —Q: $1.6 billion is in there —SPICER: Again, I think that is our request, and we will continue to work with Congress on how to move forward with the rest of fiscal year 17's budget.Ryan's threat to the House Freedom Caucus: If you don't work with Trump, he'll work with DemocratsThat's our interpretation of House Speaker Paul Ryan's remarks to CBS: "What I worry about ... is that if we don't do this, then [Trump will] just go work with Democrats to try and change Obamacare and that's not - that's hardly a conservative thing," he said in an interview.But it's striking that Ryan, who cut a budget deal with Senate Democrats during Obama's final years in office, is treating bipartisanship as a bad thing. Is that what things have come to?North Carolina politicians reach a deal on HB2 controversy, but gay-rights advocates aren't happy with it"Lawmakers in North Carolina announced late Wednesday night that they had reached an agreement to repeal a measure that restricts which public restrooms transgender people can use," the Washington Post reports. But gay-rights groups are crying foul over the other parts of the deal, including passing a law prohibiting local governments from regulating private accommodations (like bathrooms), and a moratorium until 2020 on cities and localities adopting non-discrimination ordinances. "The rumored HB2 'deal' does nothing more than double-down on discrimination and would ensure North Carolina remains the worst state in the nation for LGBTQ people," said Human Rights Campaign President Chad Griffin in a statement.Beto O'Rourke to take on Ted Cruz in TexasThe Houston Chronicle: U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke, a Democrat and ex-punk rocker who pulled an upset to win his House seat six years ago, plans to declare his candidacy on Friday for the Senate seat held by Ted Cruz, according to Democratic sources in Texas. O'Rourke's fledgling campaign scheduled an announcement on Friday in El Paso, his hometown. He has traveled around Texas over the last three months making contacts, barely concealing his political plans."Special Election WatchIn the GA-6 special election, Republican Karen Handel is up with a TV ad responding to the Club For Growth's attack on her.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/judge-trump-no-protection-campaign-rally-speech-inciting-violence-n741731
Judge to Trump: No Protection for Campaign Rally Speech Inciting ViolenceLOUISVILLE, Ky. — A federal judge has rejected President Donald Trump's free speech defense against a lawsuit accusing him of inciting violence against protesters at a campaign rally.Trump's lawyers sought to dismiss the lawsuit by three protesters who say they were roughed up by his supporters at a March 1, 2016 rally in Louisville, Kentucky. They argued that Trump didn't intend for his supporters to use force.Two women and a man say they were shoved and punched by audience members at Trump's command. Much of it was captured on video and widely broadcast during the campaign, showing Trump pointing at the protesters and repeating "get them out."Judge David J. Hale in Louisville ruled Friday that the suit against Trump, his campaign and three of his supporters can proceed. Hale found ample facts supporting allegations that the protesters' injuries were a "direct and proximate result" of Trump's actions, and noted that the Supreme Court has ruled out constitutional protections for speech that incites violence."It is plausible that Trump's direction to 'get 'em out of here' advocated the use of force," the judge wrote. "It was an order, an instruction, a command."Plaintiffs Kashiya Nwanguma, Molly Shah and Henry Brousseau allege that they were physically attacked by several members of the audience, including Matthew Heimbach, Alvin Bamberger and an unnamed defendant they have yet to be able to identify.Bamberger later apologized to the Korean War Veterans Association, whose uniform he wore at the rally. He wrote that he "physically pushed a young woman down the aisle toward the exit" after "Trump kept saying 'get them out, get them out," according to the lawsuit.Heimbach, for his part, sought to dismiss the lawsuit's discussion of his association with a white nationalist group and of statements he made about how Trump could advance the group's interests. The judge declined, saying such information could be important context when determining punitive damages.Related: Lawsuit Filed Against Trump Over Violence at Kentucky RallyThe judge also declined to remove allegations that Nwanguma, an African-American, was the victim of racial, ethnic and sexist slurs from the crowd at the rally. This context may support the plaintiffs' claims of negligence and incitement by Trump and his campaign, the judge said."While the words themselves are repulsive, they are relevant to show the atmosphere in which the alleged events occurred," Hale wrote.[Image: Image: Trump speaks at rally in Louisville]Donald Trump speaks at the Kentucky International Convention Center in Louisville, Kentucky on March 1, 2016.   Aaron P. Bernstein / Getty Images, fileLawyers for Trump and his campaign also argued that they cannot be held liable because they had no duty to the plaintiffs, who assumed the risk of injury when they decided to protest at the rally. The judge countered that under the law, every person has a duty to every other person to use care to prevent foreseeable injury."In sum, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have adequately alleged that their harm was foreseeable and that the Trump Defendants had a duty to prevent it," the judge ruled, referring the case to a federal magistrate, Judge H. Brent Brennenstuhl, to handle preliminary litigation, discovery and settlement efforts.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/trump-says-united-states-can-solve-north-korea-without-china-n741806
Trump Says United States Can ‘Solve’ North Korea Without ChinaPresident Donald Trump believes he can "solve" North Korea's weapons testing program without the help of Beijing if necessary, according to an interview published in the Financial Times."If China is not going to solve North Korea, we will," Trump told the newspaper. "That is what I am telling you."When the interviewer followed up, pressing Trump on whether such unilateral action could be successful, the president responded: "Totally."Nightly News Exclusive: Lester Holt anchors from South Korea on Monday and Tuesday, April 3 and 4, at 6:30 p.m. ETTrump did not provide a larger strategy or additional details, telling the paper: "I don't have to say any more.""I'm not going to tell you," Trump said when asked about various strategies the U.S. could use to motivate North Korea. "You know, I am not the United States of the past where we tell you where we are going to hit in the Middle East. Where they say — I used it in the speeches — 'We will be attacking Mosul in four months'. A month later, 'We will be attacking Mosul in three months, in two months, in one month.' And why are they talking? There is no reason to talk."The assertion comes four days ahead of Trump's first meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, a two-day summit at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida — and amid a series of ballistic missile tests from North Korea.On March 22nd, the country attempted its third rocket launch since Trump's inauguration. The missile exploded seconds after launch.On Friday, Defense Secretary James Mattis said North Korea was acting "in a very reckless manner," and during his first visit to Asia last month, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced that the United States' "policy of strategic patience" was over."We are exploring a new range of diplomatic, security, economic measures," Tillerson said. "All options are on the table."China is North Korea's closest ally and primary supplier of food, weapons and energy — a relationship that the Chinese have described as "close as lips and teeth."But it's become increasingly tense. After the apparent assassination of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's half-brother in Malaysian airport on February 14, China banned coal imports from the country — a move that triggered an angry missive from Pyongyang.In the Financial Times interview, Trump also declined to discuss a timeline for the next item on his administration's legislative agenda —the perennially fraught issue of tax reform. In February, his treasury secretary said that Congress would overhaul the system by August.Trump also insisted that a plan to dismantle Obamacare was being negotiated "as we speak," and that it was his idea to call off a vote on House Speaker Paul Ryan's American Health Care Act.Asked if he pulled the bill because he didn't want to lose, Trump responded, "I don't lose."FBI director rejects Trump's wiretap claims, confirms Russia investigation  3:05autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogLater, when questioned on if he regretted any of his statements on Twitter, the president returned to a familiar theme."I don't regret anything because there is nothing you can do about it," he said. "If you issue hundreds of tweets, and every once in a while you have a clinker, that's not so bad."And despite FBI Director James Comey's insistence last month that there was no basis to Trump's wiretapping allegations, which he made on Twitter, in the FT interview the president asserted that his claim "is turning out to be true."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-spurns-bipartisanship-vows-fight-fellow-republicans-2018-n740496
Trump Vows to ‘Fight’ Republicans, Targets Specific LawmakersPresident Donald Trump vowed Thursday to "fight" lawmakers in his own party in the 2018 midterm elections, even calling out members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus by name who he sees as standing in the way of healthcare reform.In a tweet, the president departed from platitudes about party unity and bipartisan outreach and instead retreated to his own corner, ready for battle against Democrats and some in the GOP.The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don't get on the team, & fast. We must fight them, & Dems, in 2018!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 30, 2017Asked if the tweet meant the president was advocating for primary challenges to members of his own party, spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders told NBC News "the tweet speaks for itself."Trump then took to twitter later in the day Thursday, targeting specific Freedom Caucus members Reps. Mark Meadows, Raul Labrador and Jim Jordan by name (and Twitter handle).If @RepMarkMeadows, @Jim_Jordan and @Raul_Labrador would get on board we would have both great healthcare and massive tax cuts & reform.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 30, 2017The president, who has 27 million followers, followed up the tweet with another that asked where Meadows, Jordan, and Labrador are and using the hashtags #RepealANDReplace and #Obamacare.While some Freedom Caucus members were trolled on Twitter, Rep. Ken Buck — who admitted to paling around "with those liberty-loving Freedom Caucus guys" — was praised by the president for his oped in support of the failed American Healthcare Care Act, which House Speaker Paul Ryan and Trump had backed to replace Obamacare.Trump's comment comes after his administration's defeat on a Republican attempt to overhaul healthcare last week. Despite repeated attempts to cajole House Freedom Caucus members to support the White House-backed cause to repeal and replace Obamacare, the bill never made it to a vote after it was clear it would fail on the floor.[Image: Image: Donald Trump, Haider al-Abadi]President Donald Trump awaits the arrival of Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi at the White House in Washington, Monday, March 20, 2017.  Evan Vucci / AP, fileWhite House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told NBC News after the defeat that the takeaway from the experience was knowing who the White House could trust and work with, and who they couldn't."Some people you can take at their word," he said at the time.Not only is it unusual for a president to take on his own party, but it runs counter to a new narrative from the White House that it's seeking bipartisan support on future legislative efforts.Trump shared a rare evening of bipartisanship with senators and their spouses Tuesday evening at the White House, with Spicer telling reporters the president looked forward to the opportunity to "speak with some of the senators about the places where they can come together and make this country better."Spicer specifically mentioned outreach to Democrats on confirming Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch.But Spicer also invited Democrats to join the administration as they plan tax reform and infrastructure overhauls. "We'd love to have as much support as possible," he said Tuesday briefing the press.House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters Thursday he understands and shares the president's frustration on the healthcare defeat."It's very understandable that the president is frustrated that we haven't gotten to where we need to go, because this is something we all said we would do," he said. "So he is just expressing his frustration, you all know he does that in various forms, including Twitter. And I understand his frustration."During the campaign season, Trump bucked establishment Republicans and embraced a roiling style of campaigning that conflicted with Republicans, like Ryan. That style matches more closely with House Freedom Caucus members who now find themselves at odds with the sitting Republican president.Less than one week ago, in the wake of defeat on healthcare, Trump called Freedom Caucus members "friends of mine" while expressing disappointment and surprise that the bill couldn't pass.Rep. Justin Amash, R-Michigan, tweeted on Thursday that the president had been overtaken by the very swamp he once campaigned on draining.It didn't take long for the swamp to drain @realDonaldTrump. No shame, Mr. President. Almost everyone succumbs to the D.C. Establishment. https://t.co/9bDo8yzH7I— Justin Amash (@justinamash) March 30, 2017Asked later by NBC News if Trump's tweet was a constructive negotiating tactic with the caucus, Amash fired back that "it's constructive in fifth grade...it may allow a child to get his way, but that's not how our government works."Rep. Ted Yoho, R-Florida, told MSNBC the tweet was "unfortunate" and said "we're not fighting the president, we're trying to honor what we ran on. 100 percent repeal of the Affordable Care Act. That's what we're going to stick to."Rep. Dave Brat of Virginia told NBC News it's conservatives like those in the Freedom Caucus that have been with Trump all along."We all ran with the president," he said. "The never-Trumpers weren't with Trump. We're the clean the swamp guys, we're the let's listen to the American people guys, so he knows that."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/why-trump-s-poor-start-matters-n747251
Why Trump’s Poor Start MattersTrump demands investigation of Tax Day protesters: 'Election is over'  2:19autoplay   autoplayCopy this code to your website or blogWhy Trump's poor start mattersWe are 12 days away from Donald Trump's 100th as president, but it isn't too early to proclaim his start as the poorest in the modern era. Consider:Trump's approval rating stands at 41%, according to Gallup's latest tracking, which is lower than Barack Obama's 62%, George W. Bush's 59%, and Bill Clinton's 52% at this same point in time of their presidencies.Trump's first substantial policy change — his travel ban — remains tied up in the courts.His biggest early legislative priority — repealing and replacing Obamacare — couldn't get off the ground in the GOP-controlled House of Representatives, even as Trump and Republicans have tried to revive it.Republicans are divided on how to proceed on his second-biggest legislative priority — comprehensive tax reform.And the GOP's performance in the first special congressional election of the Trump Era was underwhelming, with an even higher-profile special election taking place tomorrow.This isn't to say that Trump's first 100 days have lacked successes or have failed to follow through on campaign promises — see his immigration policies or the rolling back of Obama's regulations. But here's why Trump's poor start matters: A president's first three months in office are the EASIEST time to rack up legislative wins that can't be simply erased by the next president. The honeymoon phase, traditionally, has been when a president's power with his own party, with the opposition, and with independents is at its highest. But there's been no honeymoon at all for the nation's 45th president. And that's arguably been the major storyline of Trump's first 100 days in office.And why Trump's poor start doesn't matter as muchAll of that said, the first 100 days don't make or break a presidency. It was after George W. Bush's first three months in office when the 9/11 terrorist attacks and Iraq war took place. It was after the 100-day mark when Barack Obama's health-care law was signed into law. And it was well into Bill Clinton's, Bush 43, and Obama's second terms when they experienced the lows of their presidencies (the Lewinsky affair, the crash of Lehman Brothers, and the HealthCare.Gov woes). So it's entirely possible that Trump's trajectory will be different than his predecessors'. After all, we have another 1,300 days (!!!) to go until Election Day 2020. But if you can't make things work during the honeymoon phase, you're not going to have an easier time as the marriage — with all of its inevitable ups and downs — ages.The Night the Lights Went Out in GeorgiaTomorrow is the special congressional election in Georgia to fill HHS Secretary Tom Price's old seat, and here are the recent developments in that highly watched contest: "Republicans and Democrats have spent $14 million on a nonstop ad blitz to sway Georgia's special election. But the outcome of Tuesday's vote may come down to a more personal touch… On Saturday alone, campaigns and staffers for outside groups knocked on thousands of doors and made tens of thousands of phone calls. At a Republican get-out-the-vote rally in Marietta, Republicans tried to unite behind a 'Stop [Democrat Jon] Ossoff" movement,'" the Atlanta Journal-Constitution writes… Samuel L. Jackson is giving Dems a boost in a new radio ad... The latest analysis from 538: "Even if Ossoff finishes in the low 40s, it will be hard to rule him out in the second round provided that he still finishes in first place by a comfortable margin. But even if Ossoff finishes just a point or two shy of 50 percent, and Democrats finish with more votes than Republicans overall, he won't have any guarantees in the runoff given that it's a Republican-leaning district and that the GOP will have a chance to regroup."Tensions rising with North Korea"The era of strategic patience is over," Pence says: Here are all of the different moving parts regarding the escalating tensions between the United States and North Korea: In remarks from South Korea, "Vice President Mike Pence warned North Korea not to test the strength of America's military might, underlining a message that the Trump administration sought to bring peace through strength... 'On behalf of President Trump, my message to South Korea is this — we are with you 100 percent,' he said, adding the 'era of strategic patience is over,'" per NBC News… When asked on CNN what "the era of strategic patience is over," Pence responded, "It was the policy of the United States of America during the prior administrations to practice what they called strategic patience. And that was to hope to marshal international support to bring an end to the nuclear ambition and the ballistic missile program of North Korea. That clearly has failed."… On "Meet the Press" yesterday, Sen. John McCain called North Korea "the first test, real test, of the Trump presidency."… And one analyst tells the New York Times that the entire situation is "the Cuban missile crisis in slow motion."Turkey votes, by narrow margin, to fundamentally reshape that country's democracyMeanwhile, voters in Turkey — by a narrow 51%-49% margin on Sunday — gave President Erdogan broad new powers that fundamentally reshape that government's democracy. "The outcome is expected to have a huge effect on Turkey's long-term political future and its international relations. Although the result, if officially confirmed, would fall short of the sweeping victory Erdogan had sought, but nevertheless cements his hold on the country's governance," the AP writes. The New York Times has more: "The constitutional change will allow the winner of the 2019 presidential election to assume full control of the government, ending the current parliamentary political system… The new system will, among other changes:Abolish the post of prime minister and transfer executive power to the president.Allow the newly empowered president to issue decrees and appoint many judges and officials responsible for scrutinizing his decisions.Limit the president to two five-year terms, but give the option of running for a third term if Parliament truncates the second one by calling for early elections.Allow the president to order disciplinary inquiries into any of Turkey's 3.5 million civil servants, according to an analysis by the head of the Turkish Bar Association."Reminder: Trump not releasing his tax returns breaks precedent with every modern American presidentTax Day 2017 is officially tomorrow (due to April 15 falling on a Saturday and due to holidays), but President Trump fired off these tweets Sunday in response to the anti-Trump tax rallies from over the weekend:"I did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a Republican-easily won the Electoral College! Now Tax Returns are brought up again?""Someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday. The election is over!"But here's a reminder: The reason that tax returns are being brought up is that every modern American president has released theirs during tax-filing time (Trump has said he isn't releasing his because he's under audit):April 15, 2009: "U.S. President Barack Obama made nearly $2.5 million in 2008 from the sales of his two best-selling memoirs, according to tax information released by the White House on Wednesday. Obama jointly filed his 2008 federal income tax return with his wife Michelle, reporting an adjusted gross income of $2,656,902 and paying $855,323 in federal income tax and $77,883 in state income taxes, the White House said," per Reuters.April 14, 2001: "President Bush, who has touted tax cutting as a top priority of his new administration, paid $240,342 in federal taxes last year on an adjusted gross income of $894,880, according to documents released Friday. But Bush's income and taxes were dwarfed by Vice President Dick Cheney, the former oil executive, who reported making $36 million and paying $14.3 million in taxes in 2000," per the Houston Chronicle.April 15, 1993: "Like lots of other taxpayers, Bill and Hillary Clinton wrote a check to the Internal Revenue Service... Their federal income taxes totaled $70,228 - 24 percent of an adjusted gross income of $290,697, according to copies of the return released by the White House," per the Washington Post.Indeed, here are the tax filings for every modern president going back to Jimmy Carter, according to the Tax History Project. (Gerald Ford didn't release his returns, but did release summary data.)Trump's DayPresident Trump participates in the annual White House Easter Egg Roll at 10:30 am ET, and then he meets with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson at 1:30 pm ET; White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer holds his press briefing at 2:00 pm ET.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/hillary-clinton/hillary-clinton-explains-why-she-really-lost-trump-n743581
Hillary Clinton Explains Why She Really Lost to TrumpAlmost four months after her stunning defeat, Hillary Clinton on Thursday primarily blamed her loss to President Donald Trump on four factors that were beyond her control.The former Democratic presidential candidate cited Russian meddling in the election, FBI Director James Comey's involvement toward the end of the race, WikiLeaks' theft of emails from her campaign chairman, and misogyny.Clinton's comments came during her first post-election interview at Tina Brown's eighth annual Women in the World Summit in New York City. She was questioned by Nicholas Kristof of The New York Times.She largely cited these factors for her defeat:- Russia. "A foreign power meddled with our election," she said, labeling it "an act of aggression." She called for an independent, bipartisan investigation into the Kremlin's involvement and said the probe should examine whether there was collusion with the Trump campaign.- Misogyny. "Certainly, misogyny played a role. That has to be admitted," she said. Clinton added that "some people — women included — had real problems" with the idea of a woman president.- Comey. Clinton cited as damaging to her campaign his unusual decision to release of a letter on October 28, less than two weeks before Election Day, that said he was looking at additional emails related to the FBI probe of the former secretary of state's use of a private server.- WikiLeaks. Weeks of disclosures of stolen emails from the personal account of then-Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, were particularly harmful, Clinton said, adding that it "played a much bigger role than I think many people yet understand."She said the combination of Comey's actions and the WikiLeaks' revelations "had the determinative effect."About her own role, she said, "There were things I could have done better."While Clinton said there were "lots of contributing factors" to her failure to secure the nation's highest office, she called Russia's interference the "weaponization of information.""I didn't fully understand how impactful that was and so it created doubts in people," Clinton said. "But then the Comey letter coming as it did — just 10 days before the election — really raised questions in a lot of people."Two days before the election, Comey announced that none of the emails would lead to criminal charges — leaving in place the FBI's determination from July. Officials told NBC News that nearly all of the emails were duplicates of emails that had been examined already.Kristof also asked Clinton about Trump."I don't understand the commitment to hurt so many people that this administration, this White House, seems to be pursuing," Clinton said, pointing to the immigration ban, the slashing of U.S. funding for the UN Population Fund, and the failed health care bill."What they did or tried to do on the health care bill, which I will confess to this — having listened to them talking about repeal and replace for 8 years, or 7 years now, and they had not a clue what that meant," she said. "They had no idea. I don't know that any of them had ever even read the bill."Clinton, who is writing a book that she said would examine her defeat last year, said she doubted she would ever seek public office again."Devastating," was how she described her loss.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/spicer-offends-hitler-gassing-remark-n745241
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer Apologizes After Causing Uproar With Hitler GaffeWhite House Press Secretary Sean Spicer apologized Tuesday evening after causing a firestorm for saying that Adolf Hitler "didn't even sink to using chemical weapons" against his own people like Syrian strongman Bashar Al-Assad.Spicer, speaking from the White House podium at the daily press briefing, said that Hitler, whom he called "despicable," did not use "the gas on his own people the same way Assad used them."He sought to clarify his remarks in three separate follow-up statements — which did little to help — and then provided a full-blown apology."To draw any kind of comparison to the Holocaust was inappropriate and insensitive," he told NBC News.He later continued, referring to the Jewish holiday of Passover, "I'm absolutely sorry, especially during a week like this to make a comparison that is inappropriate and inexcusable."But that was well after the outrage on social media was already in motion, with reporters and public figures blasting Spicer's comments — and saying they were particularly offensive coming during Passover.I hope @PressSec takes time to visit @HolocaustMuseum. It's a few blocks away. https://t.co/24fNoMUyS8— Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) April 11, 2017Yeah. Jews weren't really Germans and Hitler's gassings weren't "dropped down" like Assad's serin attacks. Got it. https://t.co/GClZxKUfsa— Eli Stokols (@EliStokols) April 11, 2017Having visited Auschwitz last summer, and seen the remains of the gas chambers, I find this an astonishing comment. https://t.co/pyvjjbxQv2 https://t.co/AOflaPuQmp— Glenn Kessler (@GlennKesslerWP) April 11, 2017Sign Up for NBC News Breaking News AlertsOvernight, Israel's Transportation Minister Yisrael Katz called Spicer's comments "grave and outrageous.""There is a moral obligation that precedes policy. We must demand that he apologize or resign," he said in a statement on Twitter.On Wednesday, Katz told Israel Army Radio that Spicer's apology had been acceptable, and "it was good that [it] was very clear."On Tuesday, the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect called on President Donald Trump to can Spicer."Sean Spicer now lacks the integrity to serve as White House press secretary, and President Trump must fire him at once," Steven Goldstein, the organization's executive director, said in a statement.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi echoed those sentiments."While Jewish families across America celebrate Passover, the chief spokesman of this White House is downplaying the horror of the Holocaust," she wrote in a statement. "Sean Spicer must be fired, and the President must immediately disavow his spokesman's statements. Either he is speaking for the President, or the President should have known better than to hire him."When asked by NBC News if his job is safe, Spicer reiterated his apology."Well, you know what, I made a mistake. I'm owning up to it," he said. "And you know, this is, obviously I expect, I'd hope, that everyone understands that we all make mistakes and ask for forgiveness."The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum used Spicer's gaffe as a moment to remind of the horrors of the Holocaust.At the briefing, Spicer pointed out that Assad dropped chemical weapons in the "middle of towns."U.S. officials said the Assad regime used Sarin in strikes on the Syrian people in a deadly attack last week that prompted U.S. military strikes in retaliation.Nazis murdered Jews in gas chambers during the Holocaust by the millions with the use of chemical gas agents like Zyklon B.Spicer acknowledged that Hitler did bring gas "into the Holocaust centers ... I understand that."Before his apology, Spicer had sought to clarify his remarks in multiple statements and said he was not trying to diminish the Holocaust."In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust," Spicer said in his third attempt at clarification. "I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable."
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/democrats-vs-trump/trump-s-shadow-looming-over-special-election-n744231
Trump’s Shadow Is Looming Over This Special ElectionSANDY SPRINGS, Georgia — Amy King, an accountant in this Atlanta suburb, said she's always been a Republican.But when a Republican, Judson Hill — the first candidate to enter the first competitive congressional race of Donald Trump's presidency — knocked on her door Tuesday evening, King told him she was considering voting Democrat or just skipping the upcoming special congressional election."I've been thinking about how no one in the Republican Party is standing up to what is crazy," she said while standing her driveway, mentioning some of Trump's controversial Cabinet appointments and statements."It's immensely shaken my confidence in the Republican Party," added King, who declined to say who she voted for in the presidential election.With dispirited Republican voters like King on one side and a fired-up liberal base on the other, Democrats are hoping to use the April 18 special election in Georgia's 6th Congressional District as a model for how to convert Trump's unpopularity into votes in future contests.It's a high-profile race for a seat that used be held by Newt Gingrich and which was recently vacated by former Rep. Tom Price, who joined Trump's cabinet as Health and Human Services Secretary.But even though Trump is at the center of this race, which both parties are watching as a bellwether of the midterms in 2018, most contestants in the sprawling 18-candidate field don't want to mention his name.Hill, a former Ronald Reagan aide who represented a large swath of this district for 12 years in the state Senate, insists he is asked about Trump only by reporters, not voters.[Image: Image: Georgia Sen. Judson Hill]Georgia Sen. Judson Hill, R-Marietta, talks to fellow lawmakers as a bill he sponsored restricting abortion coverage in plans available through the state health insurance exchange is passed on the Senate floor on March 3 in Atlanta.  David Goldman / AP"This is not referendum on the president," he told NBC News.Still, while Hill says that he has no doubt a Republican would handily win here in a more conventional election, he's worried this one is different. As he knocks on the doors of reliable Republican homes in this affluent area, Hill finds politically weary voters who are bit overwhelmed by their choice among 11 GOP candidates.RELATED: Democrats vs. Trump: Full coverage"People are not expecting an election in April. Getting them to be aware of the election and focused on it when they've gone through a lot in 2016 with the presidential race has been a real challenge," Hill said.In low-turnout elections like this, when a few hundred votes can make the difference, enthusiasm goes a long away.Democrats want to send a messageFor Democrat Jon Ossoff, awareness has not been a problem.He's lead every poll and this week announced raising a record-breaking $8.3 million over the past three months.Most of that came from out-of-state liberals looking for a way to stick it to Trump by donating to Ossoff, a 30-year-old investigative journalist who doesn't actually live in the district.But on a rainy Wednesday morning last week as Ossoff took the stage of Oglethorpe University, he nodded to the hopes people have invested in him — but never actually talked about Trump."We have the first chance in the country to make a statement about what we stand for. The eyes of the nation are on us," he told the school's chapter of the College Democrats, which report engagement levels in this race matching or exceeding those of the 2016 presidential election.“ It’s like I almost don’t want to watch the news anymore because it’s like, what did President Trump do today?”"We can win this thing on April 18 and send a message that will be heard across metro Atlanta, across Georgia, and across the country," he added.Ossoff has largely consolidated his party's support, much to the chagrin of other Democratic contestants. "I almost feel like Bernie Sanders and what they did to him in his election," said former Democratic state Sen. Ron Slotin, who is also in the race.But while backing from party leaders like Nancy Pelosi has gotten him to the low 40s in most polls, Ossoff needs to shed his partisan edges to make Republicans and independents feel comfortable voting for him.Under the unusual rules of election, all 18 candidates — 11 Republicans, five Democrats and two independents — will appear on the ballot. The top two vote-getters of any party will advance to a June runoff election, unless one candidate gets more than 50 percent, in which case they win outright.Ossoff's best chance at victory is to carry the day against a divided field this month, rather than face off against one GOP candidate and a united Republican Party in June. So he's doing everything he can to climb above 50%.Ossoff launched his campaign with an invitation for donors to "make Trump furious," but now goes out of his way to avoid discussing the president or the fact that he is a Democrat.RELATED: Thousands of would-be Dem candidates in Trump backlashInstead, he's casting himself as a bipartisan pragmatist whose real foils are gridlock and political corruption.In an interview with NBC News, Ossoff said it's about "staying focused on executing locally.""The campaign is an alternative to despair and anger. By staying focused on positive American values that unite people, like courage and decency, and humility, and respect, the contrast with what's happening in Washington is obvious," he said.In an indication of the national interest in the race, outside conservative groups have spent nearly $5 million on TV ads portraying the first-time candidate as a sympathizer of Osama Bin Laden, a left-wing extremist, a Nancy Pelosi "yes man," and a college nerd who likes to dress up as Star Wars characters.Bellwether?In general, Sixth District Republicans are not Trump Republicans.The district is one of the nation's most educated and affluent. It went for Florida Sen. Marco Rubio in the GOP primary and Trump eked out a narrow 1.5 percent win over Hillary Clinton — a far cry from Mitt Romney's 24 percent romp over Barack Obama in 2012."Since I first moved into it 27 years ago, it was a whole lot different than it is today," said Dan Moody, a leading Republican candidate with the backing of former Gov. Sonny Perdue.Moody this week launched ad saying Trump has "great ideas — if the hard work gets done. Well, I love hard work."But the "Trump" ideas Moody touts — term limits and reducing the size of government — are traditional conservative ideas that were never central to Trump's message.[Image: Image: Republican candidate for U.S. Sen. Karen Handel concedes her race with her husband Steve beside her]Republican candidate for U.S. Sen. Karen Handel concedes her race with her husband Steve beside her at the end of an election-night watch party on May 20, 2014, in Roswell, Georgia.  Phil Skinner / APMost of the other top GOP candidates, like former Georgia Secretary of State Karen Handel, have avoided discussing the president.Handel, who is relatively well known thanks to a gubernatorial bid and her high-profile resignation from the Susan B. Komen breast cancer foundation over its decision to support Planned Parenthood, has positioned herself as a "results-oriented" leader."We have had enough talk in Washington. It is time to deliver," she says, without saying to whom exactly in Washington she is referring.The Trump wingBut two Republican candidates have decided that in a crowded field there is a Trump lane to victory — and each is trying to push the other into a ditch."If they want to make this referendum on Trump, I'm very happy to take that fight. And I'm ready to bring it to them," said Bob Gray, a soft-spoken businessman.Gray is temperamentally nothing like Trump, which perhaps helped him secure support from the Wall Street-backed Club for Growth, which has spent almost $300,000 on his race, even though it and Trump have mutual distrust.Bruce LaVell, who led Trump's diversity coalition and brags about his friendships with top White House aides, calls Gray a phony."You claim to be this Trump candidate, and yet you're in bed with Club with Growth," LaVell bellowed during a debate Wednesday. "I am Donald Trump's top surrogate here in Georgia and nationally."LaVell sells his ability to get White House officials on the phone, like former campaign manager Corey Lewandowsky, who stumped for the candidate in March."Corey's very close to me," Lavell told NBC News."A lot of people are kind of star struck because they see me on the news a lot. They know I know the president very well, they know I know the family very well," he said. "There's nobody on the stage who's going to have that clout like me."A model for Democrats?Democrats hope Ossoff will help beat a path out of the political wilderness and back to the majority.The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee sent nine staffers to the district and has conducted three focus groups to try to glean lessons that could be applied to 2018 races.The liberals who filled Ossoff's campaign coffers seem to be fine with — or perhaps unaware of the fact — that their anti-Trump hero sounds more like a moderate.It underscores the challenge Democrats face in trying to turn the anti-Trump "resistance" into electoral wins next year. Go too hard on Trump and risk turning off independents and moderate Republicans; go too soft on Trump and risk losing the liberal base.Stacey Abrams, the top Democrat in the Georgia State House, said Democrats need to prepare for much more work even if Ossoff wins. "I am very hopeful and bullish in on his victory, but I also think we do ourselves a disservice if we think that one election is the barometer of change," she said.Back in Sandy Springs, Maggie Williams, a Republican who lives around the corner from Amy King, seemed to be dreading another election. Answering the door with a baby in her arms and two dogs at her feet, she was not eager to talk about the president."It's like I almost don't want to watch the news anymore because it's like, what did President Trump do today?" she said. "I hope it all just settles down."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/analysis-trump-s-low-poll-numbers-limit-influence-over-unruly-n741706
Analysis: Trump’s Low Poll Numbers Limit Influence Over Unruly RepublicansWinning power is one thing. Wielding it is another. Just ask the Republican Party.The GOP holds both houses of Congress and the White House, but so far it has struggled for a major achievement. Last week's collapse of health care reform offers the most prominent example.What's holding Republicans back? The numbers suggest two big problems for the party. One, President Donald Trump's low poll numbers mean lawmakers don't feel a powerful need to follow him. And two, the splits within the party are about more than just details. They are significant political and philosophical differences.On Friday, Gallup's daily presidential tracking poll showed Trump was at 38 percent approval. For a man on 71st day of his presidency, that figure is abysmal. He is well below any of his predecessors at this point.To put it bluntly, 38 percent is not the kind of number that scares a wayward congressman if the chief executive says "follow me or else" — essentially Trump's threat to members of his party this week.And Gallup is not alone in giving Trump poor numbers. Across a wide range of polls, his approval number is not near 50 percent.That lack of a powerful, popular leader only heightens the GOP's other problem: The deep differences running through it.The GOP won in 241 districts in November (there are 237 now after cabinet appointments) and the party needs 216 votes to have a majority. That means they can afford to lose 21 votes. Now consider some of the differences in the House districts that the GOP won.Trump's feud with his party last week centered on the Freedom Caucus, a group of 32 conservative House members that the president and members of his administration subsequently promised to "fight" in the midterm elections of 2018. One potential impediment to Trump's tough talk: In 29 of those 32 districts, the Freedom Caucus member out-performed Trump on Election Day.So even if Trump is popular in those places, the House members are likely more popular. That doesn't mean they'd be completely safe from Trump's promise to "fight," but it at least suggests they feel pretty comfortable standing up to the president.In 23 House districts held by Republicans, Hillary Clinton was actually the winning presidential candidate. In another five districts, she lost to Trump by less than 2 points. The representatives in those 28 districts may find it very easy to go against the president — they might even see opposing Trump as being in their best interest with the president whose approval rating is mired in the high 30s.Related: Trump Aide Dan Scavino Calls for 'Defeat' of GOP Rep. Justin AmashAnd at the other end of the spectrum, 42 of those House GOP districts gave Trump 66 percent or more of their vote — that's 20 points better than Trump did nationally. Those places are likely going to be pro-Trump even as his numbers slip.Or look at the House GOP split through the frame of policy. Cuts to Medicaid proposed by the failed Republican health care bill would have had a significant impact. One in five Americans, 20 percent, get their health insurance through Medicaid.In 24 GOP-won House districts, 20 percent or more of the population gets insurance through Medicaid. But in another 27 House districts, less than 10 percent of the population gets insurance through the program.It only stands to reason that voters in those districts might have very different ideas about the role the government should play in health care and, perhaps, the role of government aid in a broader sense.Add it all up and you have a very complicated, diverse coalition without a strong force to hold them together.Last week, in the wake of the GOP's failure to pass a bill repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act, some party leaders said that Republicans needed to re-learn how to govern."We've been an opposition party for ten years," House Speaker Paul Ryan said in an interview. "We've got to become a proposition, governing party."That may be true, but considering the fragmented nature of the party and the politically weak power at the top, it will not be easy.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/north-carolina-politician-under-fire-comparing-abraham-lincoln-hitler-n746321
North Carolina Politician Under Fire for Comparing Abraham Lincoln to HitlerA North Carolina lawmaker was taking flak Thursday for posting on Facebook that President Lincoln was "tyrant" just like Adolf Hitler.State Rep. Larry Pittman made the comparison while responding to critics Wednesday who were blasting him for pushing a bill that would have restored North Carolina's ban on same-sex marriage in defiance of the U.S. Supreme Court.[Image: Image: Larry Pittman attends a House session]Larry Pittman attends a House session on Jan. 30, 2013.  Takaaki Iwabu / The News &amp; Observer via AP fileIt was a commenter's crack that he should "get over it" that set off Pittman, who is a Republican, a preacher — and apparently still smarting over the South's loss in the Civil War more than a century-and-a-half ago."And if Hitler had won, should the world just get over it? Lincoln was the same sort (of) tyrant, and personally responsible for the deaths of over 800,000 Americans in a war that was unnecessary and unconstitutional," Pittman wrote.(The death toll was closer to 620,000, according to the Civil War Trust.)The exchange on Pittman's campaign Facebook page first appeared in a story by the Raleigh News & Observer.And while it appears to have been scrubbed from Pittman's page Thursday there were still plenty of people piling on and calling him a "warm pile of garbage" and worse.[Image: Image: Larry Pittman comments on his campaign facebook page]Larry Pittman comments on his campaign facebook page.  Courtesy The News &amp; ObserverPittman, who is from the Charlotte suburb of Concord, did not return calls for comment to both his office and home and did not respond to an email. Neither did House Speaker Tim Moore, who is also a Republican.The Facebook fracas came after Moore on Wednesday effectively killed Pittman's bill, which says the Supreme Court ruling in 2015 that legalized gay marriage "is null and void in the State of North Carolina.""There are strong constitutional concerns with this legislation given that the U.S. Supreme Court has firmly ruled on the issue, therefore House Bill 780 will be referred to the House Rules Committee and will not be heard," Moore said in a statement.Pittman made his Hitler crack a day after White House spokesman Sean Spicer had to apologize for saying the Nazi leader "didn't even sink to using chemical weapons" against his own people like Syrian strongman Bashar Al-Assad."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-expected-sign-anti-abortion-bill-n746011
Trump Signs Bill Allowing States to Block Some Planned Parenthood MoneyPresident Donald Trump has signed legislation that lets states withhold federal family planning funds from Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers.[Image: Image: Anti-abortion advocates rally outside of the Supreme Court]Anti-abortion advocates rally outside of the Supreme Court during the March for Life on Jan. 27, 2017 in Washington.  Drew Angerer / Getty Images fileTrump's action erases a rule that was finalized shortly before President Barack Obama left office in January. It's the latest Obama-era regulation that Trump's overturned.Trump signed the measure Thursday behind closed doors in the Oval Office.The measure narrowly cleared the Senate last month. It took votes by an ailing Republican senator who was recovering from back surgery, and a tie-breaking vote by Vice President Mike Pence — serving as president of the Senate.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/mike-pence-breaks-senate-tie-measure-targeting-planned-parenthood-funding-n740666
Mike Pence Breaks Tie on Senate Measure Targeting Planned Parenthood FundingVice President Mike Pence cast a rare tie-breaking vote Thursday in the Senate to pass a bill allowing states to withhold federal funds from health care clinics like Planned Parenthood.The measure would roll back an Obama-era rule that barred states from withholding funds from clinics that also offered abortion services.Two Republicans — Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — voted against the 48 other GOP senators. The party has a 52-48 majority in the Senate, with lawmakers voting 51-50 to pass the legislation.Planned Parenthood slammed the bill, saying it could potentially encourage states to discriminate against family planning healthcare providers that offer abortions."Mike Pence went from yesterday's forum on empowering women to today leading a group of male politicians in a vote to take away access to birth control and cancer screenings," Dawn Laguens, executive vice president of Planned Parenthood, said in a statement. "There's a reason they could barely get enough votes to get this bill through a procedural step: People are sick and tired of politicians making it even harder for them to access health care, and they will not stand for it."The Obama regulation — a Department of Health and Human Services rule — prohibits states from cutting Title X family planning grants to community health centers that serve mainly low-income Americans solely because they offer abortion services. The rule from December 2016 required funds be awarded based on a provider's ability to "effectively deliver Title X services."Although Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers can receive Title X grants, legislatures have blocked them from receiving the funding in nearly a dozen states. The Obama administration's regulation was designed to outlaw this practice.In a series of tweets, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) called the vote an attack on women's rights and reiterated that she will oppose Trump's Supreme Court pick Neil Gorsuch, who Democrats fear will support overturning Roe v. Wade."Women and men are watching what is happening here, watching what Republicans are trying to do and they are paying attention," she wrote.Related: Ryan, Trump Pile on the Freedom Caucus After Health Care FailureIn a statement to NBC News, Rep. Diane Black (R-TN) praised the vote. The congresswoman, who introduced the legislation in late January, said the measure will protect states' rights."The Obama rule tried to force states — including Tennessee — to send taxpayer money to abortion providers like Planned Parenthood instead of community health centers and other qualified health providers," she said. "Title X has worked for 45 years until the Obama Administration changed the rules, and this legislation will simply undo this ill-conceived change."Under the Hyde Amendment, Planned Parenthood and other healthcare clinics already cannot receive federal money for abortion services. Originally enacted in 1976, the law states that clinics can only use Title X grants for non-abortion health services.This isn't the first time Pence has had to break a tie in the Senate. Earlier this year, he was summoned to Capitol Hill to vote to confirm Trump's controversial pick for education secretary, Betsy DeVos.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-he-s-pretty-n753006
Trump on North Korea’s Kim Jong Un: ‘He’s a Pretty Smart Cookie’President Donald Trump labeled brutal North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un "a pretty smart cookie" in a wide-ranging interview aired Sunday."At a very young age, he was able to assume power. A lot of people, I'm sure, tried to take that power away, whether it was his uncle or anybody else. And he was able to do it. So obviously, he's a pretty smart cookie," Trump told CBS News in an interview on "Face the Nation.""But we have a situation that we just cannot let — we cannot let what's been going on for a long period of years continue," he added.The interview, conducted Saturday, comes a day after North Korea test-launched what U.S. officials said was a short-range ballistic missile, a test prohibited by United Nations sanctions. The missile blew up shortly after launching, officials said.Trump praised his relationship with Chinese President Xi Jinping as "very good" and rebuffed criticism over backing down from his oft-repeated campaign-trail promise to label China a "currency manipulator.Trump reiterated in the Sunday interview that he believed China had stopped manipulating its currency, and stressed the importance of working with the nation over the threat of North Korea.[Image: Image: North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un watches a military drill marking the 85th anniversary of the establishment of the Korean People's Army]North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un watches a military drill in this handout photo by state-run Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on April 26, 2017.  KCNA via Reuters"I believe that President Xi is working to try and resolve a very big problem, for China also," Trump said, adding, "And that's North Korea. Can you imagine if I say, 'Hey, by the way, how are you doing with North Korea? Also, we're going to announce that you're a currency manipulator tomorrow.'"Trump later added that the issue of North Korea was "maybe more important than trade.""Trade is very important. But massive warfare with millions, potentially millions of people being killed? That, as we would say, trumps trade," he said.Related: National Security Chief Tells S. Korea U.S. to Pay for Antimissile System: OfficialBut Trump then questioned whether China could have potentially had a hand in meddling with the 2016 U.S. presidential election, despite U.S. intelligence agencies saying they believe the Russian government was involved in a covert campaign to attempt to influence the election.[Image: Image: President Donald Trump tours The AMES Companies, Inc., in Harrisburg, Pa., with Vice President Mike Pence and Wilbur Ross United States Secretary of Commerce, April, 29, 2017.]President Donald Trump on April, 29, 2017.  Carolyn Kaster / AP"Knowing something about hacking, if you don't catch a hacker, okay, in the act, it's very hard to say who did the hacking," he said. "With that being said, I'll go along with Russia. Could've been China, could've been a lot of different groups."Related: Trump Warns of Possible 'Major, Major Conflict' With North KoreaTrump then added that "we have to find out what happened," and that he and his campaign "had nothing to do" with any potential election meddling.Committees in both houses of Congress are currently investigating Moscow's involvement in the election as well as links between Russia and various Trump allies.And as Trump marked his 100th day in office, he said he was "thoroughly enjoying" the job, and that while it was tough, he claims he's had jobs that were tougher."Well, it's a tough job. But I've had a lot of tough jobs. I've had things that were tougher, although I'll let you know that better at the end of eight years," he said.Before becoming president of the United States, Trump was a real estate developer for most of his career after joining his father's company out of college, with stints as reality-TV star, sports-league owner, and writer. He is also in the World Wrestling Entertainment Hall of Fame.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/trump-invites-philippines-president-duterte-washington-white-house-n752951
Trump Invites Philippine President Duterte to Washington: White HousePresident Donald Trump invited controversial Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to the White House during a "very friendly" call Saturday, the White House said in a statement.According to the White House, Trump "enjoyed the conversation," which addressed concerns over North Korea. The president also looked forward to visiting the Philippines in November for two summits with other Asian nations, it added.The leaders also discussed the Philippine government's contentious war on drugs, which has claimed thousands of lives and drawn criticism from rights groups as well as some Western governments.The statement gave no further details of Duterte's planned visit to Washington, but said it would be used to discuss the U.S.-Philippine alliance which the White House said was "heading in a very positive direction."[Image: Image: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte]Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte   ERIK DE CASTRO / ReutersDuterte launched a crusade against the trade and use of illegal drugs in the Philippines after assuming office in June 2016.According to leading international campaign group Human Rights Watch, Duterte's crackdown has claimed some 7,000 lives, with half of those attributed to the Philippine National Police.In addition to the killings, around one million alleged drug dealers and users have handed themselves in to police to avoid the violence.Previously, the firebrand Philippine leader's comments — including saying former President Barack Obama should "go to hell" — have prompted some to compare him to Trump. Recent relations between the Philippines and its longtime ally the U.S. were strained under Obama, with Washington suspending aid to the country at the end of last year.The Millennium Challenge Corporation — a U.S. government aid agency — announced in December that its board had deferred a vote on a renewal of the development assistance package for the Philippines "subject to a further review of concerns around rule of law and civil liberties."Duterte then publicly renounced the U.S. alliance, instead seeking closer ties with China and Russia.The leaders' call Saturday appears to mark a change of direction in the U.S.-Philippines alliance, which even last month looked to be under further strain after an American TV drama featured a nasty fictional Philippine president.The Philippine embassy in the U.S. issued a statement in March protesting the portrayal of the fictional Filipino president, who was shown making sexual advances toward the character of the U.S. secretary of state in the CBS show "Madam Secretary."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/pence-tax-plan-could-increase-deficit-maybe-short-term-n752976
Pence: Tax Plan Could Increase Deficit ‘Maybe in the Short Term’WASHINGTON — Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday morning acknowledged that the Trump administration's tax proposal could increase the deficit, at least at first."Maybe in the short term," he said during an exclusive interview on NBC's "Meet The Press," while predicting that it would eventually be overcome by economic "growth.""The truth is," he added, "if we don't get this economy [growing] at 3 percent or more as the president believes that we can, we are never going to meet the obligations that we've made today.""The president has proposed one of the largest tax cuts in American history," Pence said.On Wednesday, the White House released a one page outline for changes they want to see in the tax code, including lowering individual tax rates to 10 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent, and also cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent.Based on the single page of tax reform goals released by the White House this week, many economists have predicted that implementing all of the changes could increase the deficit by trillions of dollars.Pence's appearance coincided with the Trump administration hitting their 100-day mark in office, as they work to defend themselves from stories about their lack of notable legislative success.The vice president pinned blame for the stall of their health care bill on the GOP-controlled Congress."I have to tell you, the legislative process is often slow," he said. "It's the old saying, 'if you like sausage, don't go where they make it,' right? And we are making law here. We are re-making one of the worst pieces of legislation in modern American history."Pence in many ways has become the White House's point person on health care reform on Capitol Hill, and he said Sunday that "Congress obviously wasn't ready to begin the process of repealing Obamacare a little more than a month ago," but now, "we are close."He also raised the possibility of addressing health care by executive action."We are hopeful there will be action in the House of Representatives soon," he said, "through executive action and through further legislative action that we're on, our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare and give the American people the kind of world class health care they deserve."Last month, discussions around proposed American Health Care Act — backed by the White House and House Speaker Paul Ryan — went down in flames after they set their own deadline to vote on the bill but could not gather up enough votes in the House to pass it.Then this week, the House Freedom Caucus, who helped scuttle the bill last time, announced their support of the legislation with the addition of what's being called the "MacArthur Amendment," but more moderate members have since expressed new reservations.That amendment would allow states to opt out of two insurance regulations: Essential Health Benefits and narrow components of the Community Rating. States would not be able to waive out of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, but they would be able to ask for a waiver where insurance companies can charge people with pre-existing conditions more.Pressed on whether a bill would be passed before 2018, Pence said, "I hope before the end of the year."
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/trump-touts-first-100-days-record-slams-press-campaign-style-n752916
Trump Touts First 100 Days Record, Slams the Press in Campaign-Style RallyPresident Donald Trump used the occasion of his first 100th day in office to hold a campaign-style rally in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, touting his record and taking aim at the national media.The president told a boisterous crowd of supporters that he was "thrilled" to be far away from Washington D.C. where members of the press were gathered for the annual White House Correspondents' Association dinner."As you know there's another big gathering taking place tonight in Washington D.C., did you hear about this? A large group of Hollywood actors and Washington media are consoling each other in a hotel ballroom in our nation's capital right now," Trump said. "They are gathered together for the White House Correspondents' Dinner. Without the president."Trump spent the first few minutes of his speech criticizing his treatment by the media, using his standard refrain of "fake news.""Media outlets like CNN and MSNBC are fake news. Fake News," Trump said. "And they're sitting and they're wishing in Washington - they're watching right now - they would love to be with us tonight. But they're trapped at the dinner, which will be very, very boring."Before talking about own first 100 days, Trump told the crowd he first wanted to rate the media's record during his presidency.Trump named two newspapers by name, the New York Times and the Boston Globe, in his attacks."Take the totally failing New York Times. Pretty soon they'll only be on the internet," Trump said. "The paper is getting smaller and smaller — it's starting to look like a comic book."Ultimately, Trump declared the media had earned a "very, very big fat failing grade.""The Washington media is part of the problem," Trump said. "Their priorities are not my priorities, and they're not your priorities, believe me."Back in Washington D.C., as the dinner kicked off, Jeff Mason, president of White House Correspondents' Association, pushed back against Trump's attacks."It is our job to report on facts and to hold leaders accountable," Mason said. "That is who we are. We are not fake news. We are not failing news organizations. And we are not the enemy of the American people."Journalist Bob Woodward later echoed Mason's sentiment, saying: "Mr. President, the media is not fake news."Before the star-studded event kicked off, Hasan Minhaj — the Daily Show correspondent and the evening's host — told MSNBC that the evening would "very interesting" without the president there.When Minhaj took the stage, he didn't hold back from both the president and the press, a tradition for entertainers at the event."OK, we've got to address the elephant that's not in the room," Minhaj said. "The leader of our country is not here, and that's because he lives in Moscow. It's a very long flight. It'd be hard for Vlad to make it ... As for the other guy, I think he's in Pennsylvania because he can't take a joke."Minhaj took shots at members of Trump's administration including Kellyanne Conway, Jeff Sessions, Steve Bannon and Sean Spicer.He also poked fun at media outlets, particularly the cable news networks, CNN, FOX News, and MSNBC. Minhaj also warned that those in the news business had to be at the top of their game because Trump views them as "public enemy No. 1.""I don't have a solution on how to win back trust" Minhaj said. I don't, but in the age of Trump I know that you guys have to be more perfect now more than ever because you are how the president gets his news."Hours earlier, to the cheers of the crowd, Trump turned his attention from his attacks on the media, to numerous achievements he said he has accomplished in the first 100 days since the inauguration.[Image: Image: U.S. President Donald Trump leads a rally marking his first 100 days in office in Harrisburg]U.S. President Donald Trump leads a rally marking his first 100 days in office in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, U.S. April 29, 2017.  CARLOS BARRIA / ReutersHe included the administration's decision to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, his appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, job creation, a crackdown on immigration and terrorism as some of his achievements.America's relationship with world leaders was another highlight of his first 100 days, according to Trump.He implied that he has refrained from labeling China a "currency manipulator" — as he pledged to do so as a candidate — because Chinese President Xi Jinping is helping the United States with North Korea."As you know I've been a big critic of China, and I've been taking about currency manipulation for a long time," Trump said. "So we have currency manipulation by China but China is helping us possibly or probably with the North Korean situation. It's a great thing."Trump also remarked that coal mining jobs were returning and that he was reducing federal regulations "clearing up an environment of bureaucracy." He told the crowd Obamacare was dying and would be replaced, the Second Amendment would be protected, and gangs would be removed from the country.Before closing his remarks, Trump reminded his supporters he was cracking down on immigration and his infamous wall along the U.S.-Mexico border would be built.Related: Special Report: Trump's First 100 DaysTrump also indicated that he would soon be making a decision about America's role in the Paris Climate Agreement.During the rally, which ended about an hour before Minhaj would begin his bit at the Correspondents' Dinner, Trump criticized the former administration, saying he inherited a mess from President Barack Obama.[Image: Image: Members of the head table applaud as Minhaj finishes his performance at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in Washington]Members of the head table applaud as Hasan Minhaj finishes his performance at the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in Washington, U.S. April 29, 2017.  JONATHAN ERNST / ReutersTrump is the first president to miss a White House Correspondents' Association dinner since Ronald Reagan, who was recuperating from an assassination attempt at Camp David during the dinner in 1981.On Feb. 25, Trump announced he wouldn't be attending the dinner on Twitter, but sent his best wishes.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2017Trump's history with the dinner has been tense in the past. When he was a guest in 2011, Obama singled Trump out to tease him about demands to see the 44th president's birth certificate, which had been released in long form just days before the dinner.At Saturday night's dinner, once his jokes had concluded and despite Trump's absence, Minhaj marveled at the platform he had been given."Only in America can a first-generation Indian-American Muslim kid get on this stage and make fun of the president," Minhaj said. "It's a sign to the rest of the world, it's this amazing tradition, that even the president is not beyond the reach of the First Amendment."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/senate-group-draws-fire-lack-women-working-health-care-n756856
Senate Group Draws Fire for Lack of Women Working on Health CareA Senate working group tasked with crafting a version of health care policy that can muster support from at least 50 of the 52 Republican senators has found its mission complicated by who has not been included — women senators.The Republican conference includes five women, and none were invited to join a core group of 13 senators to take the lead in crafting a health care bill.Some Republican women have expressed dismay, including Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. She told reporters Tuesday, "I just wanna make sure we have some women on" the Senate health care group.And Sen. Susan Collins of Maine said she wouldn't join now even if she was asked."I really don't want to. You know, there are so many important issues in health care that to spend all my time talking about this seems like not a productive way to move forward," Collins said.But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that the group is just one of several discussions ongoing and that every Senate Republican will have a say."Nobody's being excluded based on gender," McConnell said, pointing to an hour-long lunch of Senate Republicans on Tuesday where health care was the main topic of discussion. "What you should write - we're having a discussion about the real issues. Everybody's at the table. Everybody."But the "working group," McConnell helped to convene consists of a group of 13 members, including himself, met for the second time on Tuesday before the entire Republican conference met for lunch. At this meeting, the members discussed the topic of Medicaid.After criticism of the group mounted, Sen. Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia was invited to join Tuesday's meeting to discuss the health insurance program for low-income Americans, an issue that particularly influences her state."Those are choices that were made," Capito said about the makeup of the group. "You know, I don't know. As a woman I'm going to be participating very loudly.""Leaders have the right to choose whomever they wish. It doesn't mean I'm not going to work on health care," said Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, a former insurance commissioner and critic of limiting access to abortion providers and who has also co-authored a bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. "I think I can bring some experience to the debate that will be helpful."Democrats have been quick to point out the lack of women in the group. "I would hope that Senator McConnell would be a little more sensitive to the fact he's picked a dozen men on his side, there are certainly some very competent women he could've chosen," Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., told MSNBC Tuesday. "Let me start with Susan Collins, who's been working on revising and repairing our health care system for some time now, Lisa Murkowski, who has some very strong feelings as well. I mean there are many people he could've turned to have a more balanced approach to a much more affordable repair of the system."Also missing from the roster are some critical moderate voices. Both Sens. Collins and Murkowski have been skeptical of limiting access to abortion providers.The group does include two notable conservatives — Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah — who have wanted nothing short of a complete repeal of Obamacare. But even conservatives say they are leery of McConnell's move to include them so early in the process to lock in their support."We're scared of having our presence be misconstrued as acquiescence," an aide to one conservative senator told NBC News.For his part, Cruz has already somewhat softened his original position, acknowledging that a complete repeal is untenable."The test for success is very simple: will premiums go up or go down," Cruz said. "And we should start where there is common ground, start where we agree and where there are disagreements. We should look at how we come together to come to yes."Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, noted the impossibility of a full repeal after benefits have been given for nearly a decade."The public wants every dime they can be given, I mean, let's face it once you get them on the dole they're going to take every dime they can," Hatch said. "And we've got to find some way of getting things under control, or this country and your future is going to be gone."The gap in policy differences between Republican senators is large, and diffusing the differences is going to be difficult.Even on the meeting Tuesday to discuss Medicaid, the members of the working group have large differences of opinion.Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio, a state that expanded Medicaid, is concerned with an abrupt end to the expansion that he says has helped Ohio residents. He floated adding increasing the tax credits for low-income people if the Medicaid expansion is cut."I'd like to change the House version of the tax credit by the way and focus it more on people who are close to the poverty line rather than having it at the higher end," Portman told reporters.On the other end of the ideological spectrum, Sen. Lee wants to end the Medicaid expansion and reduce the number of people receiving it by restricting it to expectant mothers, the disabled and caregivers of young children.In addition, Lee wants a repeal of all insurance mandates, including essential health benefits and even pre-existing conditions, which is politically explosive. The House bill has been criticized for amendments that would allow people with pre-existing conditions to be charged more.But Sen. Lamar Alexander, chairman of the Senate Health, Education and Labor Committee, who is on the working group, said that one of his four priorities is to "make sure people with pre-existing conditions have access to health care."Senators say they are aware of the policy challenges and are cautioning against any legislation being introduced soon."We're going to have to satisfy 51 senators. And I can't tell you how long that's going to take. ... We don't have any arbitrary deadline," said Sen. John Cornyn, the second highest ranking Republican in the Senate. "But it's going to take some time to get to that consensus."Meanwhile, all 48 Democrats, including the two independents who caucus with the Democrats, wrote a letter to McConnell asking him not to gut Obamacare and instead work with them to make health care better."Democrats stand ready — as we always have — to develop legislation with Republicans that will improve quality, lower costs, and expand coverage for all Americans. But Republicans need to set aside their current partisan efforts and work with us to get this done," the Democrats wrote in the letter.Vice President Mike Pence attended a Senate luncheon Tuesday to discuss health care, among other issues. Pence could be a critical vote in the Senate — if Republicans lose just two of their members, he would be in a position as president of the Senate to break a tie.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/deal-government-funding-reached-averting-shutdown-n753086
Deal on Government Funding Reached, Averting ShutdownA deal has been reached on a bill to fund the government for the final five months of this fiscal year, an agreement that is likely to avert a government shutdown, aides to senior members of Congress told NBC News on Sunday.Congressional negotiators had been working through the weekend to hash out the last remaining complications in a bill to fund the government.After President Donald Trump backed down on funding for the construction of a border wall, some additional sticking points remained, including health benefits for coal miners, funding for Puerto Rico and an additional $30 billion for defense, delaying congressional negotiators and causing them to miss their deadline of Friday.[Image: Image: President Donald Trump]The spending agreement must still be passed by Congtress and signed by President Donald Trump.  Pool / Getty ImagesCongress passed and Trump signed into law a one-week extension on Friday to keep the government open after negotiators failed complete the bill last week.The deal includes an additional $12 billion in defense spending, which is $18 billion less than Trump asked for. It also includes a permanent fix to fund coal miners' health care instead of a temporary extension.Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York called the deal "a good agreement for the American people" that "takes the threat of a government shutdown off the table.""The bill ensures taxpayer dollars aren't used to fund an ineffective border wall, excludes poison pill riders and increases investments in programs that the middle-class relies on, like medical research, education and infrastructure," Schumer said Sunday night."Early on in this debate, Democrats clearly laid out our principles," he said. "At the end of the day, this is an agreement that reflects those principles."Democrats stressed that there is no money not only for a border wall, but also for a deportation force, and they said there would be no cut in funding for so-called sanctuary cities.And instead of $3 billion for border security, which was requested by the Trump administration, the bill includes just half of that — $1.5 billion. It also includes $295 million for Puerto Rico's Medicaid program.A big moment in these negotiations was when Trump backed down from two of his demands last week on money for a border wall and withholding subsidies to help lower-income people buy health insurance under the Affordable Care Act.The House and the Senate still have to pass the bill before it can be signed by the president.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/axios-sneak-peek-5-things-know-week-n753061
Axios Sneak Peek: 5 Things to Know This Week1. 1 Big Thing: Accomplishment WeekFamous last words but our sources at the highest levels in the White House and on Capitol Hill genuinely believe two things could happen this week:A health care bill passes the House.Successful passage of a government funding bill. (I asked a top source on Sunday afternoon what the final outstanding items were on the bill and instead of listing items, as the source usually would, the source kept saying "we're very close" and was confident Congress would pass it before the 1-week temporary spending bill expires.)GOP leadership is nervous about jinxing either of these events, and nobody wants to make bold proclamations about health care in particular (given how burned they've been in the past), but the optimism is genuine. We're hearing from folks who've been cynical all along that they really think this could happen for the first time since version 1.0 failed.What you need to know:It's unlikely there'll be any significant changes to the amended health care text as it currently stands.House leadership is desperate to just get health care out of the House. They want it to become the Senate's problem for a while.Mark Meadows is getting good reviews. Even Republicans in leadership who loathe the Freedom Caucus leader admit he's delivered. He's got the big name, most intractable conservatives like Jim Jordan to "yes" and it's a huge help that the most truculent conservative outside groups are now supportive.Members are still digesting the amendment. Some of them went home Friday to see their kids graduate, so have been a bit slow on the uptake. They've been talking to the whip team throughout the weekend and there'll be more meetings on Monday.Moderates are still worried about higher costs for people with pre-existing conditions. They're still irritated they weren't consulted enough in the process. And they know the bill is going to get transformed in the Senate, so they aren't happy about taking a tough vote for something that'll never see the light of day.What the White House thinks: Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus both genuinely believe a vote is imminent. It's widely acknowledged within the West Wing that they made a mistake the first time around by outsourcing the process to Paul Ryan and HHS Secretary Tom Price.2. Corey's ComplianceA hot topic of conversation the past 48 hours among sources close to President Trump: Corey Lewandowski's decision not to register as a lobbyist. Lewandowski, who runs a political consulting firm that advertises its proximity to the White House, talks to the president regularly, including visits to the West Wing. But he insists he's doing no lobbying for his clients, whatsoever.This situation is fast developing into a major PR problem for Trump's former campaign manager. I'm told multiple media outlets, including the New York Times, are investigating Lewandowski's firm. Politico's Ken Vogel and Josh Dawsey published a deeply reported story a couple of days ago that says a second firm Lewandowski co-founded appears to have offered access to the President.The key paragraph:A document provided to an Eastern European politician by an international consulting firm that Lewandowski co-founded this year promises to arrange "meetings with well-established figures," including Trump, Pence, "key members of the U.S. Administration" and outside Trump allies. [Barry] Bennett ...[Lewandowski's business partner] ... said that he hadn't seen the Washington East West Political Strategies document. He acknowledged, though, that he and Lewandowski started the firm.I asked Lewandowski on Sunday about his decision not to register as a lobbyist. He wouldn't explain himself, but instead kept telling me to contact his clients. Lewandowski then sent me a statement from his firm's lawyer John Mino, which said the firm and its employees "take their compliance obligation seriously," and are fully compliant with lobbying disclosure laws.3. Trump's 100-Day InterviewPresident Trump had a testy sit-down to mark his first 100 days with John Dickerson, host of CBS' "Face the Nation" (or, as Trump called the program to Dickerson's face: "Deface the Nation.")Highlights that will echo into the week:Trump is dead serious about telling the Chinese they'll get a better trade deal if they help with North Korea. China experts have called this strategy a folly — some worry President Xi will play Trump for a sucker — but Trump told Dickerson: "If China can help us with North Korea and can solve that problem, that's worth making not as good a trade deal for the United States ... right?"The President believes his superior trade-negotiation skills will help solve the deficit problems caused by his massive tax cuts: "It's going to be made up by better trade deals. It's going to be made up ... by many different, reciprocal tax. As an example, we have countries where if we make a product and we send it to that country, they charge us 100% tax. If they make the same product and send it to us, we charge them nothing. You think that's smart? It's not."Note for tax wonks: Trump has always liked the idea of a border tax. It's just that the White House has concluded the Republican leadership's "border adjustment tax" — a hike on import taxes to raise $1 trillion over 10 years — is politically dead. Targeted tariffs, outside of the tax reform process, seem much more likely.Despite the dreams of fiscal conservatives, Trump ain't reforming Medicare: "Let me more clear. I'm not going to touch it, because I said it."4. Sunday Highlight ReelVP Mike Pence, to Chuck Todd on NBC's "Meet the Press":Acknowledged the Trump tax plan could add to the deficit: "Well maybe in the short term. But the truth is if we don't get this economy growing at three percent, or more as the president believes we can, we're never gonna meet the obligations that we've made today."Reince Priebus, White House chief of staff, to Jonathan Karl on ABC's "This Week":On the carried interest tax loophole (for hedge fund managers): "The president wants to get rid of carried interest. So that balloon's not going to stay inflated very long. I can assure you of that."On Trump inviting the Philippines' brutal president, Rodrigo Duterte, to the White House: "I'm not so sure it's a matter of honoring this president or any of the facts that you've laid out there, it's really a matter of a potential for nuclear and massive destruction in Asia [with North Korea]. ... This is a different level of problem that we need cooperation among our partners in Southeast Asia."5. 1 fun thing: West Wing leak guessingThe West Wing is a paranoid place, and officials there are constantly trying to root out the leakers. At the highest level in the White House, everyone (and I do mean everyone) talks to reporters off the record or on background. It's just that different high-level officials have their own favored reporters.One simple leak-decoding tactic that some officials use: Scan reporters' Twitter feeds to see who publicly defends or says sympathetic things about certain officials. Then keep that official's name in mind as the scoops roll in for that reporter.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/nbcblk/meet-anthony-daniels-alabama-s-first-black-house-minority-leader-n746211
Meet Anthony Daniels, Alabama’s First Black House Minority LeaderIn February, Alabama House Minority Leader Anthony Daniels made history twice when he became the first black person and the youngest official to hold the state legislative position.Out of 105 representatives in the state legislature, the 34-year-old Democrat is one of 27 black representatives — and his election to the post reflects the state's changing political landscape. Recent political scandals such as the resignation of former governor Robert Bentley and former chief justice Roy Moore's suspension from the state Supreme Court, have sent both Republicans and Democrats in search of something new, David Wasserman, political analyst for the Cook Political Report, said.However, Wasserman cautioned, Daniels has his work cut out for him as the young leader of Alabama's minority party."Twenty years ago it was three parties in Alabama, today it has collapsed into segregated partisan politics," Wasserman said.[Image: Image: Anthony Daniels]Anthony Daniels, Alabama State House Minority Leader.  RonaldPollardPhotographyBorn in Barlow, Florida, Daniels was raised in Midway, Alabama by his grandparents with a strong foundation of faith, Daniels told NBC News."In middle school, I used to pray about being the most impactful leader, but it starts here. I want to help somebody," Daniels said.Pursuing his passion for education, he attended Alabama A&M University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in elementary education and a master's degree in special education. At 23, he became the first black man elected chairman of the National Education Association Student Program, an extension of the National Education Association that provides support to college students seeking a career in public education.Alabama State House Minority Leader Anthony Daniels.  Business Council of AlabamaAs leader of the student program, Daniels worked out of the NEA headquarters in the nation's capital, meeting with congressional leaders and organizations to find a solution to make college more affordable. He also worked with the Bush administration, where he was instrumental in the passing of the College Cost and Reduction Act of 2007.Once he became an elementary school teacher in Huntsville, Alabama, he realized he could have a deeper influence working in government.Related: #Goals: How Black Women Can Transition Into Politics"I saw the impact I had on these young people but I thought about all the things that we complain about in life and I felt I was making a difference in the classrooms," Daniels said. "But I felt as a policy maker I could impact the lives of the young and people in general, those who don't have a voice for themselves. So that's why I decided to go into politics."In 2008, he ran for Alabama State Senate, losing to his then-opponent, Alabama State Representative Laura Hall, a Democrat. He now calls Hall one of his mentors."It was an opportunity we both had to be on the opposite side of each other, but respect each other," Hall said.Hall told NBC News that although Daniels is one of the youngest members of the legislature, his youth isn't the only thing that sets him apart from previous House Minority Leaders.Delighted to have received the Business Champion Award from my friends at BCA. pic.twitter.com/vsXb9tZ0EP— Anthony Daniels (@AnthonyDaniels) March 2, 2017"He came with a plan. He didn't just talk about running. He had a plan in what he saw and thought about how things should be done. Not saying that anyone else didn't have a plan, but not to the point that it was articulated in such a way that I believe he can make a difference," Hall said.Daniels was appointed chairman of the legislative committee for the Huntsville Education Association in 2009 and was elected to the State Board of Directors for the Alabama Education Association in 2010. He helped raise funds for his alma mater working as corporate and foundations relations officer until he was elected to the state House of Representatives in 2014.He has been on a mission ever since to bring jobs to the state and increase revenue, Daniels said. He also says he wants to recharge his party.Related: Jewell Jones is the Youngest Black State Lawmaker in America"I want to redefine the Alabama Democratic Party and unite Alabamians," Daniels said. "I'm going to look at all the industry that has left Alabama and find people that have lost jobs to those industries and listen to them and figure out a way to create a jobs bill that's going to help them. I want to see Alabama as one of the top 10 places for education and quality healthcare."Having one of the highest positions in the state legislature is a double-edged sword for Daniels. He is grateful, yet fearful. It is a road Daniels wasn't expecting to travel so quickly."I haven't even fulfilled a full term yet and I've ascended this quick. Everything I've done prepared me for this," Daniels said. "It scares me, most of the leaders who have done this early on haven't lived a long life. Dr. King, you go on down the list of leaders they were young, they didn't live a long life."Related: Native Son: Stockton's First Black Mayor Vows To Renew His CityAlabama State Representative Mike Ball, a Republican, says he and Daniels hit it off immediately and thinks highly of him."Anthony is a fine and ethical young man. He's the kind of person we need down here. He knows how to negotiate and bring people together," Ball said. "He picks his battle wisely. As a formidable leader he will cause the majority to up their game. He has a very good personality."But Daniels says he is not sure if he'll stay in politics long-term, citing his commitment to kids' education. With the foundation Stay Inbounds he started back in his home town, he says he hopes to provide positive role models to at-risk youth and expose them to opportunities he didn't have growing up."These kids need us now more than ever. We have to teach them how to fish. You don't have to be wealthy to do this. We can start doing things now," Daniels said.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/collins-king-divides-washington-reflect-divisions-america-n753001
Collins and King: Divides in Washington Reflect Divisions in AmericaWASHINGTON - In a time when partisanship seem to have overtaken much of the nation's capital as well as the nation, Maine's two senators have a theory on how it happened."The polarization of Washington reflects the divisions of our country," Republican Sen. Susan Collins said during a joint interview with Independent Sen. Angus King on Sunday's "Meet The Press."The approval rating for Congress is at an all-time low. In the most recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, only 20 percent of Americans said that they approved of the job Congress is doing.Collins lamented "the rise of ideologically-driven groups on both the left and the right who are requiring 100 percent compliance with 100 percent of their views 100 percent of the time, and the threat for members if that if they don't comply, they will face a well-funded primary opponent."She was recently rated the most bipartisan member of the Senate by the Lugar Center for the fourth straight year in a row. King, meanwhile, is an Independent who caucuses with the Democrats.In recent decades, as voters have pushed their representatives in two different directions — Democrats farther to the left and Republicans farther to the right — King also blames the Senate schedule for"We leave on Thursday night, come back Monday morning. No one lives here anymore. When I worked here 40 years ago in the Senate, everyone lived here, their family was here. People literally don't get to know each other," King said.Plus, leadership is in a tough spot, King said."I don't think it's the personalities of the leaders," he said, but "the pressures on the leaders to be partisans first is very intense."
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/sally-yates-acting-attorney-general-fired-trump-testifies-flynn-saga-n756446
Sally Yates, Acting Attorney General Fired by Trump, Testifies on Flynn SagaFormer Acting Attorney General Sally Yates testified Monday that she told the White House that then-National Security Adviser Mike Flynn could be "blackmailed by the Russians," because he misled the vice president about his "problematic" conduct."We were concerned that the American people had been misled about the underlying conduct and what General Flynn had done," Yates told a Senate Judiciary subcommittee.Yates declined to go into specifics, which she said were classified, but she essentially confirmed news media accounts about what led up to the firing of Flynn in February. Flynn misled officials, NBC News and others have reported, by saying he hadn't discussed Obama administration sanctions on Russia, when in fact he had.Yates said she expected the White House to act on the information she conveyed. But it was only 18 days later, after the Yates warning leaked, that the White House pushed Flynn out.Yates said she conveyed the information to White House counsel Don McGahn on Jan. 26, two days after Flynn was interviewed by the FBI on Jan. 24. McGahn asked Yates how Flynn did in the interview, she testified, "and I declined to give him an answer to that."Yates said she felt it was critical to get the information to the White House "in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public," and also because Flynn was compromised, given that the Russians knew he was misleading other officials.Yates said McGahn asked her, "Why does it matter to the DOJ if one White House official lies to another official?" She explained that the American public was being misled, and that the Russians knew that."To state the obvious, you don't want your national security adviser compromised by the Russians," Yates said she replied.Yates made clear that the concerns she raised had solely to do with Flynn's contacts with the Russian ambassador, and not his paid speech for a Russian state media organization or his lobbying for Turkish interests, two other issues that have brought him law enforcement scrutiny.Asked by Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut) if Flynn lied to the FBI, Yates said she couldn't answer because that would compromise an "ongoing FBI investigation." Her remarks appeared to confirm that Flynn is the target of an FBI investigation.In other developments, former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told senators he had not been aware of the FBI's counter-intelligence investigation into possible collusion between Trump associates and the Russian election interference operation."Given its sensitivity, even the existence of a counter-intelligence investigation is closely held, including at the highest levels," Clapper said.Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper testify on May 8, 2017, before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington.  Jim Watson / AFP - Getty ImagesThis puts into context Clapper's March 5 statement that he had seen no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. He repeated that statement in the hearing, saying he had seen no evidence of collusion.But Yates declined to answer the same question, saying that her answer would require her to reveal classified information.Yates was fired by President Donald Trump after 10 days as acting attorney general when she declined to enforce his executive order on travel and immigration.Obama Warned Trump About FlynnYates and Clapper's testimony comes after NBC News revealed Monday that former President Barack Obama personally warned Trump against hiring Flynn less than 48 hours after the November election.The president sought to get out ahead of the any unpleasant disclosures on Monday morning, casting aspersions on Yates — the the 27-year Justice Department prosecutor who warned the White House that Flynn had misled officials about his conversations with the Russian ambassador.Michael Flynn, then, National Security Advisor to US President Donald J. Trump, attends a press conference on Feb. 10, 2017 in the East Room of the White House in Washington, D.C.  Jim Lo Scalzo / EPA"Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W.H. Counsel," Trump tweeted, referring to Yates' conversation with White House counsel Donald McGahn.It was more than a week after Yates raised concerns about Flynn with McGahn that the story leaked to the Washington Post, prompting a series of events that led to Flynn's ouster from his White House job.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/trump-tax-plan-could-save-his-voters-money-cuts-will-n752956
Trump Tax Plan Could Save His Voters Money, but Cuts Will FollowThe rural white communities that powered Donald Trump's November victory have not been big policy winners in the president's first 100 days in office, but the tax plan the White House released this week may have them in mind as a target.In 2016, candidate Donald Trump ran a populist campaign that focused on bringing back manufacturing and coal jobs and generally taking care of blue-collar workers who feel they have been left behind in the global economy. President Trump, however, has taken different approaches on key issues.In the first 100 days of his administration the president has:Reversed himself on labeling the Chinese government a currency manipulator, a consistent promise in his campaign.Submitted a budget that calls for zeroing out spending on rural airports, as well as government programs that benefit poor counties in Appalachia and the Mississippi Delta.Supported the initial plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, which would have hit rural areas particularly hard.Trump's handling of NAFTA may, or may not, also be added into that mix. He railed against the trade agreement during the campaign and threatened to dump it, but this week announced he would rather renegotiate. What that renegotiation looks like in the end will likely play a big role in how Trump's voters see his efforts on NAFTA. But on the whole, there are not a lot of wins on this list for rural, blue-collar America.So far it doesn't seem to matter. Trump's base looks remarkably solid.The most recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that 82% of Republicans approve of the job he is doing as president, compared to 40% nationally. And an analysis of Gallup daily tracking poll data at the 100-day mark found that Trump has a job approval rating of 54% or higher in rural counties in the Midwest, in Appalachia, and in evangelical counties in the south.Eventually, however, even the most die-hard supporters want results and the loose tax proposal the White House released this week may give Trump something to sell to his rural base.Much has been made of the plan's aim to lower business taxes, but for Trump's blue-collar base the plan to double the standard deduction on individual income taxes may have the biggest impact for his voters. Consider two points.One, on income tax returns with a gross income of $50,000 or less, 87% of taxpayers took the standard deduction in 2014, according to the Internal Revenue Service.And two, out of the 2,600 counties that Trump won in November, more than 1,800 have a median household income of less than $50,000.For people in rural counties that Trump won by very big margins, such as Somerset in Pennsylvania, Ionia in Michigan and Manitowoc in Wisconsin, that could mean a tax bill cut in half, and savings of more than $1,000. That's not a small amount of money in those counties where the median household income is $49,000 or less.In some ways it's a trade off, of course. Is the tax cut enough to keep voters in Trump's base happy in the wake of the program cuts the White House has proposed and some of the backtracking it has done on trade?It's at least a down payment. And as the Administration's first 100 days ends, the tax plan is a sign that the Trump team wants to have something that tries to take care of the voters that took care of him.
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/edel-rodriguez-time-der-spiegel-cover-illustrator-n752381
Edel Rodriguez: Weaponized Cover Art, Viral DissentCuban-American artist Edel Rodriguez has done it again. Last Friday the German publication Der Spiegel released the artist's latest visual commentary on the state of American politics under the leadership of President Donald Trump.As Trump meets the 100-day marker of his time in office, Rodriguez got in just one more illustrated jab, showing the heads of Trump and North Korea's Kim Jung Un—mouths agape as if wailing—on babies' bodies, wearing diapers, and straddling a missile on a bouncy spring. The image, a reference to the intense build-up of brink-of-war gesturing and its near immediate dissipation, is the first big follow-up to the cover that could be considered the artist's proverbial mic drop.As the news media and the nation reflect on the unfolding of the last 100 days, it seems pertinent to think back on how the artist's work helped to shape the series of events.In early February, Rodriguez rode the rolling wave of a media fever pitch when the cover of Der Spiegel featured his illustration of an eyeless President Trump holding the freshly decapitated head of the Statue of Liberty alongside the headline "America First."Much has been said of the image by now and the collaboration resulted in a radical artwork that endures long after the chatter has quieted. Still, the stir shocked Rodriguez—an artist with decades of work under his belt and an impressive portfolio of international exhibitions—who says people who know him were not at all surprised by the candor of his design. Now, he jokes after having to turn down interviews for lack of time, "Oh, so I've become that guy?"Sensationalism aside, his covers have posed some questions about the work of political art, especially when the artist does not normally produce explicitly political works, namely: How does this imagery come about? And what role does it play once it's here? For this artist in particular, that understanding begins in Cuba.[Image: Image: Edel Rodriguez uses his brown coat to cover part of his face, with his father at his back, en route to the U.S.]Rodriguez uses his brown coat to cover part of his face, with his father at his back, en route to the U.S. in 1980.  Mario RuizWhen Rodriguez and his family arrived in Cuba's El Mosquito military holding camp near the port of Mariel, 25 miles west of Havana, he was just nine years old. It was April 24, 1980, and they—Rodriguez, his mother, father and sister—were among the first families to arrive to the camp, where all "Marielitos" were sent prior to boarding their boats.Cuban President Fidel Castro announced, just days before, that anyone who wanted to leave the island could do so freely, so long as an exiled relative picked them up at the port. It was the start of the Mariel boatlift—a mass exodus that saw 125,000 Cubans leave their country over a six-month stretch.Rodriguez's aunt commissioned a boat to carry the family across the Florida Straits, but it would be a week between the time they arrived at El Mosquito and the time they boarded their vessel.To relive the experience, as Rodriguez remembers it, is complex for the now 45 year-old. Sitting on the second floor of a raucous Manhattan Le Pain Quotidian at the lunch hour, he smiles as he thinks about playing baseball with other children in the camp—but the memory that comes to him is not without a subtle underlying disquiet."It was one of the most impressionable things in my life," Rodriguez recalled on that windy, wet afternoon. "When I was a teenager in high school I made work about that… There were military tanks, barbed wire everywhere, the guards would come in and boss people around at any moment."“ It’s political art in the most American way. A single person having an opinion.”Among Cuban-Americans, there is a stigma around so-called "Marielitos," with the operation considered a "Castrista" ploy to empty prisons and asylums and send the island's worst to the United States—in retaliation for the American government's treatment of Cubans who escaped, by boat, plane, or hijacking.While there were criminals, the flight also comprised families, and it was the Cuban government's disorganization that made it difficult to distinguish between the two kinds of refugees."They dropped everybody off in the same place—families, criminals, murderers, rapists, and prostitutes were all just thrown into an open area underneath some pine trees," Rodriguez said. "I remember the first night we were there, in the middle of the night, they came in with German Shepherds trying to separate the families from the criminals."It was a problem of order, but also of resources. Rodriguez learned only recently that his father had gone the week without eating because of food shortages. The palpable strain throughout the camp was exacerbated by the Cubans' uncertainty about their futures."There was always a tension in the air that you could be sent back home at any time," he remembered. "And once you got sent back home, your life was pretty much over in Cuba."[Image: Image: Illustrator Edel Rodriguez photographed in his New Jersey studio.]Rodriguez photographed in his New Jersey studio.  Christopher Gregory / for NBC NewsBut Rodriguez didn't get sent back home. Instead, 27 family members and friends boarded the Nature Boy on May 1, 1980. This early experience, he said, remains one of the first to influence all of the work he's done since.Having spent his youth in a small farm town called El Gabriel, embraced by fields of tobacco and sugar cane, Rodriguez also found himself stimulated by his neighbors, many were farmers without an education, who had a "simple wisdom" that now anchors his work. Ultimately, he said, that's the goal: making simple images that co-opt fragments of the mundane, and twist them into mirrors that reflect their overlooked complexities, all while remaining accessible to the masses, regardless of class, education or profession.The intention, he said, is to be consumable, but also to shock, and this wasn't the first explosive cover the artist has illustrated.The graphic design Rodriguez describes as his first real controversy was printed onto a 2015 Newsweek cover about women in the workplace and sexual harassment in Silicon Valley.That didn’t stop people from sending him hate mail or making threatsThe cover ignited a public outrage that called on Newsweek's editor, James Impoco, to come to its defense. He made the point that if the cover art made people angry, then perhaps it was exactly because they should be angry about the subject of the story.In November, 2015, Rodriguez illustrated a TIME cover on the Paris Attacks, replacing the "I" in the magazine's name with a blackened Eiffel Tower casting a somber, outstretched shadow across the rest of the page.And long before either of these—or TIME's "Meltdown" cover, or the image, for Der Spiegel, of Trump's head as a massive fiery comet hurdling toward a diminutive earth, which is aligned just as to suggest it will soon be devoured—Rodriguez's art was on the May/June 2006 cover of Communication Arts. The design took the iconic photograph of Che Guevara and added a Nike check mark to his beret and Apple iPod ear buds to the sides of his face—an especially testy cover that was ultimately shown even in Cuba, where Che's image is venerated and nearly deified. Still, Rodriguez said, this cover of Trump severing the head of Lady Liberty was the first where the controversy persisted.[Image: Image: A Der Spiegel cover sits in Edel Rodriguez's New Jersey studio.]A Der Spiegel cover sits in the artist's New Jersey studio.  Christopher Gregory / for NBC NewsWhat was the difference this time? The answers to that question are manifold. The immediate, easy answers have to do with today's heightened social media sharing culture—the capacity for virality—and the impact of major news outlets, according to the artist."I've been doing this for a long time, but I see the power of the big publication because I've done controversial covers before," Rodriguez said, "but the minute the TIME magazine cover and Der Spiegel covers came out, they created an instant media firestorm."Some of the other answers are not as obvious at the outset but, once understood, reveal the nuance in his work.This design came to Rodriguez as a composite of images he had already created, as a response to the immigration ban the president signed into effect on January 27. Subsequent stories of families being separated—Rodriguez recalled one that roused memories of the Elian Gonzalez showdown between Cuba and the United States in 1999—were all the fodder he needed."Castro would split families. Our families," he said. "So I just thought 'wow the president of the United States is doing the same thing that Castro would do.' And he never said 'I'm very sorry for the families that will be affected by this.' There was no warning."These are humans," he continued. "You can't just do that to people. It's his lack of empathy for anybody in any kind of situation."While Rodriguez admits he'd "rather be painting something else," he acknowledges, too, as "an immigrant speaking to Trump," the need to be politically engaged in our current moment.[Image: Image: And illustration by Edel Rodriguez shows Donald Trump and Fidel Castro, as commissioned by the New York Times for an op-ed.]Rodriguez posted an illustration depicting Donald Trump and Fidel Castro to Instagram. The piece was commissioned by the New York Times for an op-ed.The reality, he said, is that "we're not fighting against Fidel Castro. We're fighting against ourselves. And how do you win that fight? I think one of the ways is for me to do what I do."And in any case, he explained, he feels he is uniquely positioned to do this kind of work because his history sometimes acts as a protective barrier."You can't come after me," he said. "I have this experience and I'm an American now. I was affected in the same way these people are being affected now. What are you going to tell me about my life? Kellyanne Conway can't tell me I don't know what I'm talking about."But in some ways, responses to his cover were harshest in the Miami community of Cuban-Americans, where many share Rodriguez's experience. Comments on Facebook and Instagram call him a traitor and propagandist."I think we are in a propaganda war, to some degree," he said, adding as a disclaimer that his politics are "very middle of the road." Nevertheless, he said, "I will fight this to the end because I've never seen someone be so awful to everybody.""What I do as a single man making from my soul and putting it out in the world," he added. "It's information. It's political art in the most American way. A single person having an opinion."“ It would be an insult to my parents if I shut up.”That didn't stop people from sending him hate mail or making threats, and Rodriguez says security for the first time has become a concern. That, for him, only served as fuel."I'm actually shocked that I'm being asked 'Are you going to be OK?'" Rodriguez said, responding with a half sarcastic, half bewildered tone: "Where are we?""I gave up my grandparents, I gave up all my friends. My family gave up so much to come here," he continued. "And you're going to sit there and tell me 'Don't say that? Be careful?' No. It would be an insult to my parents if I shut up. Leaving Cuba affected me so much and I don't take it for granted. I'm doing this because I had that experience and in this country no one should ever have to be quiet or not speak up. That's what the American dream was to me."What good is your liberty, Rodriguez asks, if you can't exercise it? And why is merely doing so deemed an act of bravery?"I just wanted to speak my mind and make my art," he added. "Now all of a sudden what I'm doing is brave and it really bothers me that I have to be considered brave to speak in this country."His work, he insists, is necessary to fight fire with fire."I believe that this man and his administration are so brutal that you have to be brutal back," he said.Perhaps the most thought provoking criticism Rodriguez received strikes with just one word: Blasphemy. It's a notable choice because it's likely that what the cover blasphemed, he thinks, was not President Trump but the Statue of Liberty. Though Castro was known to publicly reject all evidence of idolatry, it still plays a significant role in Cuban and Cuban-American daily life.[Image: Image: Artwork by Edel Rodriguez: Chicken, Cuba, 1999, pastel on paper.]Artwork by Edel Rodriguez: Chicken, Cuba, 1999, pastel on paper.Statuettes casting saints like la Caridad del Cobre or la Santa Barbara into figures of tactile piety can be found in many homes. They are delicate and treated carefully, usually set alongside candles or, in Santeria, other offerings. The idea of decapitation and neck wounds too, it should be said, is not totally unusual in Cuban culture, considering that many grew up slaughtering their own cattle or poultry, or performing sacrificial rituals in religious practice.Rodriguez, who said these figurines were also prominent in his home growing up, offered an example: His parents wanted to see the Statue of Liberty as a primary priority when they first visited him in New York, because, they said, "It's America."This all-encompassing vision of Lady Liberty is not uncommon. In Spanish, Cubans use the phrase "La Mabel de Hierro" to refer to this very idea—that the Statue of Liberty is the symbol of America. In this sense, the elements of the design can be read as a suggestion that the Mother of Freedom, of exiles, the Lady on a Pedestal—and in effect, the virtue of American freedom and justice—had in fact become the offering in a sacrifice. The question here remains, a sacrifice to whom, and for what in exchange?And so while the rest of the world focused on the depiction of Trump as terrorist, there's reason to consider how some within the artist's own diaspora might have been concerned about a defilement of the iconic symbol of freedom—the first view of the U.S. for most early immigrants who arrived on Ellis Island."Statues mean something to us," Rodriguez reflected, acknowledging that in this sense, the charge of blasphemy is comprehensible.As the country, and the news media in particular, continue to struggle with how best to deal with a Trump presidency that in the first hundred days seems to have insisted on unfolding with contention, Rodriguez has found a method, and is quickly becoming the person who is perhaps most speaking to Trump on his own terms—seizing a domain the president considers prime real estate: The coveted magazine cover.[Image: Image: Illustrator Edel Rodriguez's New Jersey studio.]Christopher Gregory / for NBC News"In a weird way it's visually doing what he's doing with words," Rodriguez explained. "But I think it's the only thing that he understands. It's subversive but it's in the biggest magazines in the world."By continuing to elicit significant global attention with his art, Rodriguez has weaponized the magazine cover not just as content, but as context as well, playing a nuanced subversive role that, in the simplicity of the images and the vastness of their mainstream production, might sometimes go overlooked. By allowing the public to use his images—as he did when he released them for free to those attending January's Women's March—Rodriguez takes the role of the image further, establishing it as a catalyst that mobilizes the otherwise hesitant."There are people who are too tired or scared or maybe on the fence to go to a protest," he said. "And then they think 'wow, look at this print. I'm going to make a poster of it and take it to the protest.' It gives them some visual to work with. Something to share online. It's kind of like a booster shot to people… and that's the best that I can do is encourage people."While he concedes that today's 24-hour news engine has a short memory, he says his job is to start the conversation, no matter how long it lasts. Sometimes when the momentum starts to lag, the solution is as simple as nudging the conversation along with a visual spur—in the trajectory of Rodriguez's work, that's the role of his newest cover.In essence, when the conversation ends you start a new one. Though in between the release of the February and April covers Rodriguez has sustained dialogue by giving lectures, workshops and printing posters around the clock—many of which can be found posted along New York City streets. Now, Rodriguez is calling on other artists to do the same."If you look at everything the administration does every day, and everything they say, all the lies they tell... They're trying to control information," Rodriguez warned. "So I say if that's the case every artist, everyone, should get on this and fight back through graphics and information."And when met with anger, take the advice Rodriguez's father gave to him: "Si te joden, metenle mas."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/anti-trump-sentiment-drives-many-dedicate-weekends-protests-n752576
Anti-Trump Sentiment Drives Many to Dedicate Weekends to ProtestsSince Donald Trump was elected president, Julia Farber has been to the Tax March in Washington D.C, the March for Science in Detroit, and the Women's March and Bridge Together March in her hometown of San Francisco.On Saturday, she planned on attending San Francisco's People's Climate March.In all, she's spent dozens of hours protesting or traveling to protests. Not an easy feat given her daytime job as a data marketer. She squeezes in her protests on the weekends, hopping on planes and crisscrossing the country with signs in tow."I'm willing to go to just about anything," Farber said.And if the social media hashtag #protestisthenewbrunch is to be believed, protesting is currently a widely popular weekend activity.Since Trump's inauguration, thousands have regularly descended on the nation's capital. For the Women's March in Washington, more than one million took to the streets, hoping to raise awareness on a multitude of issues that affect women — from equal pay to reproductive rights."There has been a groundswell of people taking to the streets since the election," said Jason Husser, director of Elon University's Elon Poll and a political science professor. "But historically, it isn't the most popular way for people to try to get what they want."[Image: Image: FILE PHOTO: People gather for the Women's March in Washington]People gather for the Women's March in Washington U.S. on January 21, 2017.  Shannon Stapleton / ReutersFor protesters like Farber, Trump's policies are a strong draw. She believes his presidency has made people realize democracy is not something to be taken for granted."You have to fight for it, and you have to participate in the process in order to make sure you get the outcomes you want," said Farber, a registered Democrat who voted for Hillary Clinton in November's general election,She's not alone in that sentiment."President Trump is simply out of the mainstream on any number of issues," said Larry Sabato, director of University of Virginia's Center for Politics. "His personal style is grating and polarizing. His followers love him, but most of the 54 percent who voted against Trump hate him."Sabato says the protests around the nation could actually have a cathartic effect for protesters like Farber."Individually, they feel powerless as they watch Trump move the nation in a dramatically different direction," Sabato said. "The solidarity in a protest actually helps the participants cope."Grassroots organizers are looking to capitalize on the current surge in the numbers of protesters. They see the protesters as full of untapped political potential.[Image: Image: Protesters walk by the Trump hotel during the Tax March in Washington, DC.]Protesters walk by the Trump hotel during the Tax March in Washington, DC.  Mandel Ngan / AFP - Getty Images"This is what I do with my Saturdays now," said Kristina Jeffers, a veteran grassroots activist who helped create mycivicworkout.com a group at helping novice activists become engaged in the political process." Friends are there. You can take your kids. It's fun. The trick will be what's next. Protests aren't enough."Farber said the protesters are out there doing more than just asking Trump to take action."It is about making sure those in power realize that their constituencies are upset," Farber said. "It's really up to Congress to hold Trump accountable, so we need to hold Congress accountable."Aside from protesting, Farber has founded an organization called, "Where's Your Moral Compass?" that raised money to send postcards with "moral compasses" with the words "Courage, Equality, Integrity and Honor," to all 535 members of Congress, delivered on March 8, the Day Without Women.She says the compasses are to remind lawmakers to "Think about what they're doing, and remind them that every decision they make is very important to the American people."While negative polls may convince some politicians to change what they are doing, Farber believes that Trump's tweets about various marches and protests around the nation means he's paying attention to what she and others are trying to advocate."He's particularly sensitive to imagery that shows people aren't with him," Farber said. "Because of that, I think marches are more powerful than if we were dealing with other politicians."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-names-anti-abortion-leader-charmaine-yoest-high-post-hhs-n752836
Trump Names Anti-Abortion Leader Charmaine Yoest to High Post at HHSNEW YORK — The White House says President Donald Trump is appointing the former president of a leading anti-abortion organization to a senior position at the Department of Health and Human Services.Charmaine Yoest, who actively supported Trump in his campaign, will serve as assistant secretary of public affairs at HHS. From 2008 until February 2016, she was president of Americans United for Life, which campaigned at the federal and state level for tough restrictions on abortion.[Image: Image: Dr. Charmaine Yoest testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington.]Dr. Charmaine Yoest testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington.  Pablo Martinez Monsivais / APAmong the many state bills backed by the group under Yoest's leadership were measures that would ban most abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, require women seeking abortions to undergo a sonogram and impose tough regulations on abortion clinics that could lead to their closure.The appointment was assailed by abortion-rights groups.Related: Trump Signs Bill Allowing States to Block Some Planned Parenthood Money"Charmaine Yoest has spent her whole professional life opposing access to birth control and a woman's right to a safe, legal abortion," said Dawn Laguens, executive vice president of Planned Parenthood. "While President Trump claims to empower women, he is appointing government officials who believe just the opposite."Anti-abortion leader Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, praised Yoest as "one of the pro-life movement's most articulate and powerful communicators."Dannenfelser also noted that Yoest — in a sign of the ideological shift taking place in Washington — will be replacing Kevin Griffis, who joined Planned Parenthood earlier this month as vice president of communications.Related: DNC Unity Tour Hits Speed Bump Over Candidate's Abortion RecordMany anti-abortion leaders, including Yoest, were initially cautious about Trump's bid for the presidency, but became staunch supporters after he pledged to support several of their key goals. These included a federal 20-week abortion ban, a halt to federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and appointment of Supreme Court justices who would be open to overturning Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that established a constitutional right to abortion.Yoest began her career serving under Ronald Reagan in the Office of Presidential Personnel and was an adviser to former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's 2008 presidential campaign. Most recently she has served as a senior fellow at American Values, a conservative group in Washington.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/senator-behind-jimmy-kimmel-test-health-care-chats-jimmy-kimmel-n756696
Senator Behind ‘Jimmy Kimmel Test’ for Health Care Chats With Jimmy KimmelThe Republican senator who insisted that any new health care law must "pass the Jimmy Kimmel test" told the man himself on Monday night that "we will get there — if the American people call their senators.""We've got to fulfill President Trump's [campaign promise] with coverage that passes the Jimmy Kimmel test," Sen. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana — who's a physician — told Kimmel on ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live.""If we do that, we get a American plan, not a Republican plan or a Democratic plan," he said, appearing by satellite from Washington.Cassidy first coined the phrase in an interview last week on CNN."Would the child born with a congenital heart disease be able to get everything she or he would need in that first year of life ... even if they go over a certain amount?" he said. "I want it to pass the Jimmy Kimmel test."Kimmel delivered a teary 13-minute monologue last week about the birth of his son, defending former President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act and its coverage of catastrophic health conditions. Without coverage, Kimmel said, his newborn son might have died after the infant was diagnosed with a hole in his heart and required immediate surgery.He said Monday night that his son, Billy, "is doing very well."Kimmel is reported to make at least $13 million a year, but he said last week: "If your baby is going to die and it doesn't have to, it shouldn't matter how much money you make. I think that's something that, whether you're a Republican or a Democrat or something else, we all agree on that, right?"In an interview last week on MSNBC's "For the Record," Cassidy expanded on what he meant:"Jimmy talked about his son being rushed over to have surgery. Now, I take that as a metaphor," he told host Greta van Susteren. "Is your policy adequate?"Of course, you can cut premiums if you do what sometimes happened under Obamacare — people got a so-called skinny policy," he said."We need to have something that is cheaper than an Obamacare policy but still gives adequate coverage so that if somebody has a crisis, they have the coverage," he said.Cassidy founded a free clinic in the Baton Rouge area to serve uninsured residents almost 20 years ago. As a member of the House, he championed legislation to lower heath care costs associated with obesity.During his 2014 Senate campaign, Cassidy called for repeal of the Affordable Care Act but stressed at the time that any replacement should "include catastrophic coverage in case the individual has a major unexpected illness.""The individual would be eligible for the plan regardless of their preexisting condition," he said in campaign literature.
http://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-care/obamacare-uncertainty-may-mean-higher-insurance-premiums-experts-say-n755756
Obamacare Uncertainty May Mean Higher Insurance Premiums, Experts SayPresident Donald Trump and Republicans in the House may be celebrating their victory in a bill that reverses big parts of Obamacare, but the vote may mean premiums go up even higher next year, experts predict.Key senators have already said they'll tear up the House bill and start all over again, and the debate has created one thing insurers hate above everything else: uncertainty.And that means they'll either raise premiums a lot, or completely pull out of the so-called Obamacare markets, health insurance specialists say."The biggest problem we have is uncertainty. Insurers hate uncertainty," Brian Webb, manager of health policy for the national Association of Insurance Commissioners, told a briefing on Capitol Hill Friday.Health insurance companies were supposed to announce their planned 2018 premiums this month. They've gotten an extension until July 17 because of all the Obamacare repeal back and forth, but that is the latest they can wait.And with the Senate unlikely to pass the House version of the American Health Care Act, insurance companies have no idea of whether they will get federal subsidies to help cover people on the so-called individual market — the people buying Obamacare plans. Insurance companies also have little idea of who will be eligible to enroll in these plans, given the changes that could be coming.“ The biggest problem we have is uncertainty. Insurers hate uncertainty.”The Obamacare policies only cover about 8 percent of Americans. But the fight over the markets is having a disproportionate effect, politically."This is a small market, but it really is the tail wagging the dog in our system," said Karen Pollitz of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, which does health policy research.Webb worried about "months and months and months of discussions" while insurance companies are trying to figure out what they can offer and what to charge for their plans."They'll be adding in rate increases ... or get out," Webb said.A screen view of the healtcare.gov site is shown on May 5, 2017. File  Richard B. Levine / Zuma PressIt's higher premiums that made voters angry in the first place. And insurers have dropped out of many Obamacare markets across the country, saying they cannot make a profit.President Donald Trump has repeatedly called Obamacare a failure. GOP members of Congress have, too, saying it costs too much and doesn't offer enough choice."Seven years in, the so-called 'Affordable Care Act' continues to let people down. Patients want reform, stability, and access to quality and affordable health care," Republicans leading the House Energy and Commerce committee said Friday.But the lack of a clear path forward could make things even worse, Webb and other experts told the briefing, sponsored by the Alliance for Health Reform."Continued uncertainty could lead to more insurer withdrawals," said Cori Uccello, senior health fellow at the American Academy of Actuaries. "The market itself is still fragile," she added. "Insurers need to know if they are going to get paid."Congress has not made a decision on payments called cost sharing reductions. The Affordable Care Act created health insurance exchanges, where people who could not get good health insurance any other way could buy individual policies, usually with a hefty government subsidy.Insurance companies offering policies on these exchanges must limit co-pays and deductibles that patients have to pay, with the promise that the federal government will pay them back.Deep Banerjee, director of life and health insurance at financial services company Standard & Poor's, said health insurance premiums "always" go up in all markets — but they'll rise considerably if companies don't think they'll get paid back for these subsidies.A hospital bed is shown on May 5, 2017. File  Glen Stubbe / Zuma Press"If (cost sharing reductions) are not taken care of, we will see 20 percent again," Banerjee said.And they'll rise because the U.S. has by far the costliest health care in the world per capita, and the new bill does not address that issue at all. "Very little is being done towards the actual fundamental cost of care," Banerjee said.“ Since the election, there is a new political x-factor.”Webb said Maryland is the only state whose insurers have set their rates for 2018 and they'll be raising premiums by 15 percent to 22 percent. "That may give you a first early indication of what we'll see. Rates will rise even more because of the annual increase in medical costs," Webb told NBC News.The uncertainty is discouraging, because three years into the markets, they were starting to settle down after a rough first two years, the experts agreed."The market is stabilizing," said Pollitz of the Kaiser Family Foundation. "I think insurers are getting the hang of it," she added. "We aren't in a death spiral."Insurance companies, which were losing money in many states, were just beginning to break even, Banerjee added.As if that wasn't enough, another factor is making health insurance companies nervous — the mandate. Trump has made clear his administration will not strongly enforce the Obamacare requirement that just about everyone have health insurance or pay a tax.The idea was to make healthy people get insured so a good mix of healthy and sick people are paying premiums.Insurance companies are adamant about the mandate. If they are going to be required to cover all people who apply for coverage, if they cannot cap coverage once people's care starts getting expensive, and if they cannot refuse to cover certain pre-existing conditions, then they want a wide customer base.The GOP plan would do away with the mandate but its framers say that policies would be cheaper and with more choice, so younger and healthier people would buy them.But without a strong mandate, or something to replace it, premiums will rise by 15 percent to 20 percent, Pollitz predicted."Since the election, there is a new political x-factor," Pollitz said. "It is pretty clear insurers are going to have to start all over again."
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/idaho-republican-labrador-booed-over-nobody-dies-comment-health-care-n755976
Idaho Republican Labrador Booed Over ‘Nobody Dies’ Comment on Health CareIdaho Republican Raul Labrador was booed Friday after telling a town hall that "nobody dies because they don't have access to health care."The remark, in front of an audience at Lewis-Clark State College in Lewiston, was captured on a video recording of the event.A member of the audience is heard interrupting his speech, saying: "You are mandating people on Medicaid to accept dying.""No one wants anyone to die," Labrador responded. "That line is so indefensible ... nobody dies because they don't have access to health care."The audience shouted with outrage, drowning out the congressman.Responding to a deluge of angry comments on social media, Labrador admitted his comment wasn't "very elegant."In a Facebook message he said: "I was responding to a false notion that the Republican health care plan will cause people to die in the streets, which I completely reject.""In the five-second clip that the media is focusing on, I was trying to explain that all hospitals are required by law to treat patients in need of emergency care regardless of their ability to pay and that the Republican plan does not change that."Congressman Raul R. Labrador answers a question at Lewis-Clark State College, Friday.  Kyle Mills / APLabrador was addressing the crowd in Lewiston the day after the House of Representatives passed the Republican plan to replace Obamacare, by a vote of 217 to 213, just one vote over the 216 needed.The American Health Care Act will now be sent to a skeptical Senate where it is almost certain to change shape.The House measure came to the floor Thursday without an updated accounting of how much the bill will cost or its impact. The last assessment, which was done before the bill was altered, said that 24 million people would lose insurance, it would save $300 million and premiums would go down ten percent after ten years.Consumer advocacy groups have expressed concern over the bill saying it won't adequately protect patients.Labrador, who voted for the bill "to lower costs and protect the vulnerable," has previously declined to guarantee that no one will lose coverage under the GOP plan."What I can guarantee is that more Americans will be helped by this plan than Obamacare has helped," he said. "More people will have their premiums lowered, more people will have lower out of pocket costs more people will have access to these high risk pools."The legislation was made more conservative throughout the legislative process to appeal to members like Labrador who wanted nothing short of a complete repeal of Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/deep-medicaid-cuts-drive-backlash-house-health-care-bill-n755626
Deep Medicaid Cuts Drive Backlash to House Health Care BillThe House Republican health care bill's massive cuts to Medicaid, often skimmed over in the last-minute drama over pre-existing conditions, are fast emerging as a critical source of opposition in the Senate.President Donald Trump said in his speech announcing his 2016 campaign that he would not cut Medicaid and bragged on Twitter that he was the first candidate to do so. He didn't keep that promise: The bill's Medicaid cuts, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates at $839 billion over 10 years, are arguably its most sweeping change. They're also critical to financing the bill's tax cuts for high-income Americans and medical industries, which require the savings to offset the loss in revenue.Leading patient advocacy groups are warning the combination of less spending and a restructuring of the program will threaten coverage for millions of vulnerable Americans, including seniors, people with disabilities, and children. The top medical industry groups representing doctors, hospitals, and insurers are raising similar concerns, along with key Republican senators whose support will be needed to pass a bill.Cuts could force tough choicesAbout 73 million people receive coverage through Medicaid. The program covers low-income Americans and was expanded under the Affordable Care Act. All but 19 states have accepted the additional federal funding, which covers people with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty line.The House bill would gradually do away with the expansion, but would go much further than simply rolling back Obamacare's changes. It would also transform Medicaid from a program that provides guaranteed matching funds to states to one that provides a fixed per-capita amount for every recipient or a block grant to cover total spending. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated these changes will leave 14 million fewer people covered by the program after a decade.Conservative supporters argue the caps on spending will encourage states to find more efficient ways to deliver care. But the scale of cuts will inevitably force tough choices: With fewer funds available states could be forced to reduce eligibility, scale back payments to providers, or provide fewer benefits."You could have tens of millions of people removed from the program or entire classes of services eliminated from the program or both," Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law and policy at George Washington University, told NBC News.Medicaid serves more functions than is often realized, and affected groups are rushing to publicize them now that the health care bill is back in play.AARP is concerned the cuts could jeopardize approximately 10 million people who are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. Medicaid notably covers long-term care services, including home aides and nursing facilities, that Medicare does not. Thirty-six percent of total Medicaid spending goes to patients who also have Medicare, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation."The impact of such a huge loss of federal Medicaid funds on people with disabilities and poor seniors will be devastating," Lynda Flowers, a Senior Strategic Policy Adviser with the AARP Public Policy Institute, wrote in a post for the group's website.The disability community has responded fiercely as well, highlighting potential cuts to special education programs at schools and to services that help Medicaid recipients — about 10 million of whom qualify due to disability — live and work independently. The bill, National Disability Rights Network executive Director Curt Decker warned in a statement, "will compel States to ration health care for children, including important mental health services."Unexpected obstaclesWhile per-capita Medicaid spending rises with enrollment under the House plan, health experts warn it could create difficulties for states if they have to respond to a health crisis or account for new treatments that raise the average costs per person.One example is the recent opioid epidemic. Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH), whose state has been among the hardest hit, said Thursday in a statement that he opposed the House's bill because he feared its Medicaid rollback would affect treatment for drug abuse.Sens. Shelley Moore-Capito (R-WV), Dean Heller (R-NV), Susan Collins (R-ME), Cory Gardner (R-CO), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), among others, also have raised concerns about the impact on their constituents and their state's budgets.Supporters of the House plan argue that the bill smooths the transition by grandfathering people who received Medicaid through the expansion until they leave the program. "Nobody on Medicaid is going to be taken away," House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said on CNN Thursday. But Medicaid has a high turnover rate, meaning their eligibility is likely to lapse quickly.Conservative health experts supportive of transforming Medicaid into a per-capita or block grant program argue these recipients should be on private insurance instead. But there's concern even among some advocates of this approach that the bill's other provisions, namely its steep reductions in subsidies to help older low-income customers afford insurance, will leave them without any options."By repealing Obamacare's Medicaid expansion and replacing it with a flat tax credit that doesn't provide enough assistance to the working poor, millions with incomes above the poverty line are going to lose their insurance..." Avik Roy, who advised Mitt Romney's presidential campaign, wrote in a column for Forbes.
http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/democrats-criticize-senate-health-care-working-group-lacking-diversity-n755596
Democrats Criticize Senate Health Care Working Group for Lacking DiversityEven as House Republicans were wheeling and dealing to get their health care plan passed, a group of 13 senators have been meeting for weeks now to craft their own measure that is likely to look much different from the version voted out of the House Thursday. And Democrats are already pouncing on the group because of it's lack of diversity.The group's creation is outside of the normal committee process where legislation is crafted but includes Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell who has signed on to the group."As the Senate continues its work on fixing the broken promises of Obamacare, senators from throughout the conference have been working on solutions," McConnell spokesman David Popp said, "Those meetings and efforts continue, including chairmen of the relevant committees and leadership."Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, a member of the group, said it was formed to garner consensus."The Majority Leader has pulled together a group — a working group that represent different approaches and trying to get consensus there," Cornyn said, "And we're going through the issues methodically and we're just getting started."Notably missing from the working group are any of the five GOP women senators, particularly Maine's Susan Collins and Alaska's Lisa Murkowski, two moderate votes Republicans will need to get a bill passed through the senate.And Democrats have already attacked the group for that lack of diversity.It matters to have women at the table—and it matters when they aren’t. https://t.co/hRTkD3m9r1— Senator Patty Murray (@PattyMurray) May 5, 2017The group does include an ideologically diverse group of Republicans, ranging from Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah, who are pushing for a complete repeal of the Affordable Care Act, to Senators Rob Portman of Ohio and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania who want to protect Medicaid.The Senate can pass any health care bill with Republican votes alone, but with just a 52-seat majority, they can only afford to lose two votes. That tight margin is likely to make assembling a bill that appeals to the full spectrum of GOP senators just as difficult as it was in the House.Members of leadership are a part of the group and so are the heads of relative committees that would write health care legislation.
http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/will-trump-s-border-wall-prevent-human-trafficking-experts-aren-n751466
Will Trump’s Border Wall Prevent Human Trafficking? Experts Aren’t SureDuring a roundtable meeting with farmers on Tuesday, President Donald Trump remarked that his proposed border wall would help curb human trafficking."The wall is going to get built, and the wall is going to stop drugs, and it's going to stop a lot of people from coming in that shouldn't be here, and it's going to have a huge effect on human trafficking, which is a tremendous problem in this world," Trump said."A problem that nobody talks about — but it's a problem that's probably worse than any time in the history of this world," he added. "Human trafficking, what's going on."Trump on whether the wall will get built during his 1st term: "Yeah, yeah... sure. We have plenty of time." https://t.co/pzLXYy7GWj #11MSNBC pic.twitter.com/QkUDdmNNze— 11th Hour (@11thHour) April 25, 2017But experts and even Trump's own Department of Homeland Security said they are unable to guarantee that the wall would have any impact the rate of trafficking."That is a question I've been wrestling with," Dottie Laster, executive director of the Heidi Search Center in San Antonio, Texas, and a human trafficking expert, told NBC News. "I've been thinking about it daily, and the truth is I don't know if it will curb it or not."Laster, who has worked for more than a decade helping victims of human trafficking, said the challenges of getting into the United States is a tool traffickers — sometimes called coyotes — use to their advantage.She said if the traffickers have trouble getting in to the United States, they could use different paths as leverage over their victims. Conversely, it could also be a potential deterrent.Related: Flight Attendants Train to Spot Human Trafficking"It gives them power over someone who's desperate," Laster said. "I certainly hear of [victims] walking through inhospitable terrain and dying along the way. I think [a wall] might divert that and cause them to go a different route."[Image: Image: A U.S. Customs and Border Patrol officer patrols along the border]A U.S. Customs and Border Patrol officer patrols along the secondary fence between the U.S. and Mexico in San Diego, California, U.S. April 21, 2017.  MIKE BLAKE / ReutersThe "Blue Campaign" is the Department of Homeland Security's program to combat human trafficking and is working to make sure if trafficking victims are taken over the border, they're rescued or have a resource they can turn to for help.Blue Campaign fuses the services of U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to fight the problem.Due to the stealthy nature of human trafficking, however, it is unable to keep reliable metrics on how many victims are taken in or out of the United States."Because human trafficking is a hidden crime and victims rarely come forward to seek help because of language barriers, fear of the traffickers, and/or fear of law enforcement, there are often challenges in isolating metrics," Justine Whelan, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Public Affairs told NBC News in an email.Whelan said there are currently 42,000 front-line CBP officers and Border Patrol agents protecting nearly 7,000 miles of land border and 328 ports of entry. This includes crossing by land, air and sea.Related: Human Trafficking in Hotels: New York Lawmaker Teams Up With AdvocatePolaris, one of Blue Campaign's partners, keeps independent records of calls made to the Línea Nacional Contra la Trata de Personas and Polaris' National Human Trafficking Resource Center in an attempt to gain data on trafficking at the border.Between Sept. 30, 2015 and Aug. 31, 2016, 508 human-trafficking victims were reported, according to Polaris' data.Of those, the majority of victims were female adults of Mexican nationality.Most people taken across the border — 49 percent — were trafficked for the purposes of labor trafficking, according to Polaris. Sex trafficking made up another 46 percent.Polaris' data also said the majority of traffickers were male adults of Mexican nationality.[Image: Image: FILES-US-POLITICS-TRUMP-100DAYS]US President Donald Trump signs an executive order to start the Mexico border wall project at the Department of Homeland Security facility in Washington, DC, on January 25, 2017.  NICHOLAS KAMM / AFP - Getty ImagesBut, since the raw data is only a partial picture of the issue, the Department of Homeland Security was unable to comment on whether or not a border wall would notably curb human trafficking through the border.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Trump's statements regarding human trafficking.Laster said she wants people to be aware that traffickers aren't just bringing people into the United States — they're also taking people the other direction across the border into Central America."Nobody stops you going out. It's really easy to get into Mexico, but coming back — the security is more difficult," Laster said.She said crossing the border is a "walk through hell," and if Trump's border wall prevents the "rape and torture" of victims, it's something she'll support."I don't doubt [traffickers] are going to find a way [around any wall], but I think it would make it more difficult for them," Laster said. "I'm all for making it more difficult for them."
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-disrupter-president-and-the-do-little-congress/2017/04/24/e2a47118-290a-11e7-b605-33413c691853_story.html?utm_term=.9fd15b788fcd
The disrupter president and the do-little CongressPresident Trump, sitting next to U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, speaks during a working lunch with ambassadors of countries on the U.N. Security Council and their spouses at the White House on April 24. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By Dan Balz   By Dan Balz        Chief correspondent  April 24 at 6:31 PM     Follow @danbalzWill President Trump and congressional Republicans ever understand one another? Over time, they might accomplish things of mutual interest. Big things, perhaps. But the mismatch between the disrupter president and what has been a business-as-usual, do-little Congress seems especially evident as the 100-day mark of the administration nears.The president came to Washington on a mission to shake up the status quo. He prizes big and bold action and, absent that, a little showmanship. He wants to make this week one of the best of his short tenure, so he’s loading up with activities that will keep him visible and in motion. But as of Monday, he has no legislative accomplishment to pin on his wall and the prospects for changing that this week are mixed at best.No wonder Trump is dissatisfied and impatient. Congress has been mired in status quo politics for years. Now, even with a president of their own party and majorities in the House and Senate, congressional Republicans have been stuck. Trump tries to prod Congress to act, not always forgiving of why things move slowly. Congressional leaders try to educate the president on the limits and culture of the legislative process.The past few days have highlighted the disconnect between the two ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. Trump wants to tell the world that he has begun to change Washington and the country big time, that he is moving the government in dramatically new directions. His advisers are armed with talking points to prove it — steps that highlight movement on campaign promises on immigration and trade and business regulation.To really make good on his promise to change the status quo, however, the president needs help from Congress. He and congressional Republicans suffered an embarrassing setback this spring when House leaders pulled the bill to replace the Affordable Care Act. Trump would like to see the House approve a bill to do that this week. Officials continue to push for that to happen.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)The message from Congress at the beginning of this big week could not be more prosaic or uninspired. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) indicated over the weekend that the first — and perhaps only — priority for the House this week will be the funding bill, and that health care can wait for a week or a few weeks, if necessary. These funding battles have tied up Congress in the past and in 2013 led to a partial shutdown of the government. Congressional leaders know the damage a shutdown would inflict and want nothing to get in the way of resolving remaining differences.But the message sent is anything but what Trump would want. Instead of dramatic action, instead of acting on one of the president’s big priorities, it’s possible that the most Congress might accomplish by the president’s 100th day in office is another compromise funding agreement, or perhaps merely a short-term continuing resolution that would keep the machinery of government running while negotiations continue. If the House were to take up health care and pass a bill in the next few days, that action could have a big effect on how the week ultimately is judged.[Showdown looms over funding for border wall]Trump is doing little to make Ryan’s job easier on the funding battle. He wants money for his famous border wall included in the legislation to keep the government funded. The wall is one of Trump’s signature issues, and one especially important to his base, so he is loath to get to this 100-day symbolic marker of his presidency without evidence that he has made progress on acquiring the funds to get it started.White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus tried to signal Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that funding for “border security” was the avenue for a possible face-saving way to keep the government from being shut down. But amid whatever quieter negotiations are underway between lawmakers and White House officials, the president continues to interject himself in all the ways for which he’s become famous.He tweeted twice on Monday about the wall. “The Wall is a very important tool in stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth (and many others)!” he wrote. “If the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be! #BuildTheWall.”Hours later, he tweeted about health care. “If our healthcare plan is approved, you will see real healthcare and premiums will start tumbling down. ObamaCare is in a death spiral!” About that time, White House press secretary Sean Spicer was briefing reporters, noting that health care will come to a vote when House leaders determine that they have the votes to pass it. In other words, no promises when.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)Trump also disrupted his own team when, on Friday, he declared that he would put his tax plan into public view this week. What’s coming appears likely to be little more than principles, rather than proposed legislation. Those principles might not go any further than the tax plans he proposed during the campaign. It will be more motion without real action.That’s the difference between the presidency and Capitol Hill. Trump likes to say things and sign things. And so, day after day, surrounded by aides or people from the outside, he makes announcements, or he puts his signature — in big strokes — on official documents, whether executive orders or presidential memorandums. These orders are not without impact, symbolically and eventually practically. He signs them and moves on. He will sign more this week ahead of the 100-day mark.[Inside Trump’s obsession with cable TV]The legislative process doesn’t comport with his approach to governing. There are subcommittees and full committees, hearings and testimony, and eventually the marking up of legislation. Then there is the process of rounding up votes and holding together what has proved to be as fractured a House majority as existed before Trump arrived. House and Senate versions must be reconciled after each chamber has acted. Only then can Trump affix his signature to real legislation.It can be slow, slow, slow, as the framers intended. It was not made for the age of Twitter or 24/7 cable punditry, and certainly not for the era and impulses of President Trump. Perhaps he will reconcile himself to the realities, but first he is trying to prod and poke and make clear his displeasure at the pace of things.Ryan and the president remain at odds, as they’ve been since Trump became the Republican Party’s presidential nominee last year. They have mutual interests but competing responsibilities, and sometimes competing ideas and priorities. They are as different as they can be, a wonky conservative House leader and a skim-the-surface president with views that range indifferently across the ideological spectrum.But this is more than a personality difference. The disconnect between the speaker and the president is in microcosm the gap between a president who took down the establishment in both parties last year and lawmakers in the branch of government that most symbolizes what he ran against. Trump hasn’t mastered Washington or Congress, and congressional Republicans haven’t mastered him. That much is known at the beginning of this notable week.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2017/04/24/trumps-first-100-days-why-trump-wants-to-release-his-tax-plan-this-week/?utm_term=.20fd5d3a9df3
Trump’s first 100 days: Why Trump wants to release his tax plan this weekHere’s where things stand heading into Day 96 of the Trump administration:President Trump is getting closer to his 100th day in office, and without a major legislative achievement, he has his eye on this week’s tax and tariff announcements as a way to show progress for his agenda.Trump plans to unveil principles for restructuring the tax code Wednesday, laying down a marker ahead of what is expected to be a long and complex process in Congress. On Monday, the Trump administration also said it plans to impose a 20 percent tariff on Canadian softwood lumber, in what could become the biggest trade dispute between the United States and Canada in more than a decade.Trump speaks to ambassadors at the White House on Monday. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)The U.S. corporate tax rate is another target for the administration. White House officials are indicating that Trump plans to stick by his campaign pledge to cut that rate from 35 percent to 15 percent, a larger cut than House Republicans had proposed. This will be part of Trump’s announcement Wednesday.TRUMP’S OTHER METRIC FOR SUCCESS? TV RATINGS.As the 100-day mark approaches, television ratings are also on the president’s mind.Trump was a reality-show host and cable-news commentator long before he was a political candidate, and the way television has influenced his thinking and approach to public office is becoming more apparent the longer he is in office.President Trump's relationship with television goes back decades – and now that he's in the White House, his TV-watching habit is still going strong. (Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post)Take this comment from a working lunch at the White House last month. One attendee, wondering about job security in Trump’s administration, asked whether White House press secretary Sean Spicer might be the first top aide to depart.“I’m not firing Sean Spicer,” Trump said in response, our colleagues reported. “That guy gets great ratings. Everyone tunes in.”Not all of Trump’s comments about ratings are so benign.The president is receiving criticism for telling the Associated Press, in an interview published Sunday, that his presence on CBS’s “Face the Nation” pushed its viewership to its highest level “since the World Trade Center came down.”“It’s the highest for ‘Face the Nation,’ or as I call it, ‘Deface the Nation,'” Trump said. “It’s the highest for ‘Deface the Nation’ since the World Trade Center. … It’s a tremendous advantage.”THE LATEST ON THE SHUTDOWN WATCHCongress is back in town this week with one major task: avoiding a government shutdown late Friday, when current funds run out.Trump might or might not make this more difficult.Since the weekend, Trump has hammered away on Twitter at the need for the next funding package to include money for a wall along the southern U.S. border. Democrats, whose votes are necessary to approve a funding bill in the Senate, have said they will not agree to this.….the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be!#BuildTheWall— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2017The stalemate seemed to hold for much of Monday, at least publicly, with Trump continuing to tweet about the need to fund the wall. But White House officials signaled at the same time that the president might be open to a bill that would fund border security measures but not an actual wall.Trump has also opened the door to getting the wall funding this fall instead of this week, a White House official confirmed to our colleague.Negotiations are continuing as the clock ticks down toward Friday night.STATE DEPARTMENT WEBSITE FEATURES MAR-A-LAGOTrump’s private club in Palm Beach has come to symbolize the range of potential conflicts of interest he faces at the White House.That’s because Mar-a-Lago isn’t just a private estate where Trump spends his weekends. It’s a part of his business empire, a place where private individuals pay hefty membership fees for the privilege of rubbing shoulders with the president, administration officials and foreign dignitaries. Depending on the night, members might even watch Trump formulate a national-security response in real time, as took place in mid-February.President Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. (Yuri Gripas/Reuters)This already makes Trump critics uncomfortable. So it’s no wonder there was an outcry Monday as watchdog groups circulated a federal website that recently featured Mar-a-Lago in a travelogue-style blog piece.The website, which is affiliated with the State Department, promotes travel to the United States. Its choice to feature Mar-a-Lago raises the question: Is the federal government improperly promoting Trump’s businesses?The website took down the post late Monday and replaced it with a message that sought to address concerns. “The intention of the article was to inform the public about where the President has been hosting world leaders. We regret any misperception,” the message stated.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/white-house-confident-of-averting-shutdown-as-trump-shows-flexibility-on-wall/2017/04/24/72aa945a-2923-11e7-be51-b3fc6ff7faee_story.html?utm_term=.e5b4cea7c20a
White House ‘confident’ of averting shutdown as Trump shows flexibility on wallTreasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin answers questions during the daily press briefing at the White House as press secretary Sean Spicer looks on. “The president is working hard to keep the government open,” Mnuchin said. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)By Philip Rucker , Robert Costa  and David Weigel   By Philip Rucker , Robert Costa  and David Weigel        April 24 at 8:17 PM     Follow @PhilipRucker  Follow @costareports  Follow daveweigelThe White House sought Monday to calm a jittery Washington ahead of a showdown with Congress over spending, and President Trump softened his demand that a deal to keep the federal government open include money to begin construction on his long-promised border wall.Despite one-party control at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, the brinkmanship that came to define spending battles in the Obama years has tumbled into the Trump era, as have the factional divisions over strategy and priorities that have gripped the GOP for a decade.But with a Friday deadline looming to pass a new spending bill, the Trump administration projected confidence that a shutdown would be avoided. In the face of fierce Democratic opposition to funding the wall’s construction, White House officials signaled Monday that the president may be open to an agreement that includes money for border security if not specifically for a wall, with an emphasis on technology and border agents rather than a structure.Trump showed even more flexibility Monday afternoon, telling conservative journalists in a private meeting that he was open to delaying funding for wall construction until September, a White House official confirmed.“The president is working hard to keep the government open,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told reporters Monday. White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he was “very confident” that an agreement would be reached by Friday, but he pointedly said he could not “guarantee” that a government closure would be averted.President Trump and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley arrive for a White House luncheon with ambassadors from countries on the U.N. Security Council. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)At issue is whether the spending measure will explicitly allocate funds toward building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border — a campaign promise that was a rallying cry for Trump’s base and one on which he is eager to demonstrate progress by Saturday, his 100th day in office.Democrats, meanwhile, gave the White House an opening, saying they would agree to some new money for border security — so long as it did not go toward the creation of a wall, something House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) has called “immoral.”In a speech on the Senate floor, Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) blasted the idea of a wall while suggesting that a combination of smart technology and law enforcement, including the use of drones, would be “a much more effective way to secure the border” without hitting an impasse in Congress.Republicans were working to define Trump’s campaign promise down, arguing that any form of border security would fulfill it.“There will never be a 2,200-mile wall built, period,” said Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), a supporter of immigration reform who challenged Trump in the 2016 primaries. “I think it’s become symbolic of better border security. It’s a code word for better border security. If you make it about actually building a 2,200-mile wall, that’s a bridge too far — but I’m mixing my metaphors.”Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), a key appropriator and member of Senate leadership, said that “there could be a wall in some places and technology in other places,” implying that there would not be funding for the wall sketched out in campaign rhetoric. “I think you’re going to get a down payment on border security generally,” he said.Trump has asked Congress for $1.5 billion in new money to start construction on the wall, and he wants an additional $2.6 billion for the fiscal year that begins in October. The wall, experts say, would cost $21.6 billion and take 3½ years to construct.Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said technology and law enforcement, including the use of drones, would be “a much more effective way to secure the border.” (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)At the White House, Spicer portrayed Trump’s position not as a demand but rather as one of two priorities — the other being additional military funding — in evolving negotiations with Congress. He left open the possibility that the president could agree to funding for border activities generally, such as additional fencing or drones.“I’m not going to get ahead of the negotiations that are ongoing,” Spicer said.Should lawmakers fail to find consensus by Friday, there are plans ready to quickly pass through the House and Senate what is referred to as a “short-term C.R.,” a continuing resolution to keep the government open until discussions are finalized.The Senate returned Monday night and the House returns Tuesday from a two-week recess, leaving only three days this week when both chambers will be in session.The more conciliatory language emanating from the White House did not stop Trump from continuing to hammer away on Twitter at what he claims is an urgent need for the wall. In a pair of posts, Trump sought to build public pressure on lawmakers to pass funding for wall construction.“The Wall is a very important tool in stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth (and many others)!” he wrote in a morning post.In another message several hours later, Trump wrote that if “the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be! #BuildTheWall.”Still, Trump has left himself wiggle room to agree to sign a government funding bill that does not include money for the wall.“My base understands the wall is going to get built, whether I have it funded here or if I get it funded shortly thereafter,” Trump said in a recent interview with the Associated Press. “That wall’s getting built, okay? One hundred percent.”Asked if he would sign a bill without wall funding, Trump told the news service, “I just don’t know yet.”The debate over wall funding is just one of several moving pieces congressional leaders are trying to address this week to avoid a partial government shutdown. In 2015, President Barack Obama made a deal with congressional lawmakers to fund government operations through April 28, 2017. If a new agreement isn’t reached by then, many federal employees will stop being paid, national parks will close, and a number of other changes will kick in — as in 2013, the last time the government shut down.Since new rules about spending bills went into place after Jimmy Carter’s administration, a government shutdown has never occurred when a single political party has controlled the White House and both chambers of Congress.Paramount for many Republican lawmakers is funding the government, as opposed to the wall specifically. If the government shuts down, they fear, voters could blame the GOP for failing to govern, and the party could suffer the consequences in the 2018 midterm elections.“I’d like to make it as clean as we can and fund the government,” said Sen. Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.). “I wouldn’t mind funding the wall, but it’s a question of what we can do. The question is, what’s doable and will we make the deadline?”Sen. James E. Risch (R-Idaho) said that an effective “wall” along the border had been “authorized years and years and years ago,” in the Secure Fence Act of 2006.“It’s been partially built and partially funded. He wants to fund the rest of it and build it — perfectly legitimate debate that should take place on that,” Risch said.Asked if that debate could happen in three days, Risch chuckled. “Things get done quickly around here when they want it to get done,” he said.Even when Republicans controlled the House during the Obama administration, they could rarely pass spending bills without Democratic support. That is because a number of the House’s most conservative members often refused to support such bills, making a bipartisan majority coalition a necessity. In addition, 60 votes are needed to pass a requisite procedural vote in the Senate. With just 52 seats, Senate Republicans will need bipartisan support in that chamber as well.Among other guarantees, Democrats want assurances that insurance subsidies through the Affordable Care Act will continue to be funded. There have been discussions among Republicans that Democrats could agree to provide money for the construction of the wall in exchange for those health funds, but Democrats have refused.Sunday morning, congressional Democrats submitted to Republicans a compromise spending plan, which included some new money for border security but only if it did not go toward a wall. Democrats also asked for assurances that the health insurance subsidies would continue to be funded, language that would shore up benefits for coal miners and a change that would expand Medicaid benefits to people in Puerto Rico, according to a senior Democratic congressional aide.Pelosi told reporters on a conference call Monday that Congress was “on the path to get it done until [Trump] did intervene” and that the administration’s actions so far belied his campaign promise to “make Mexico pay” for the border wall.James Norton, a former deputy assistant undersecretary for homeland security under President George W. Bush, said funding for technologies, such as cameras and radars, on the border has dropped off since the early 2000s. He said to get money for the wall or other border security measures, the administration will have to “sell specifics” to lawmakers.“Each part is going to need to be sold in a specific way to Congress, and they’re going to have to hit the Hill hard,” Norton said. “It won’t be easy.”Damian Paletta and Sean Sullivan contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/04/24/bill-oreilly-sounds-like-he-is-about-to-launch-a-revenge-tour-not-an-apology-tour/?utm_term=.911ab8fc3519
Bill O’Reilly sounds like he is about to launch a revenge tour, not an apology tourFormer Fox News host Bill O'Reilly said on a podcast Monday that he is “very confident the truth will come out.” (Richard Drew/AP)Bill O’Reilly is as defiant as ever.On the day he was originally scheduled to return to Fox News from vacation, the deposed King of Cable News spoke out on a podcast Monday night about the sexual harassment allegations that led to his ouster and hinted at a campaign to clear his name.O’Reilly’s highly anticipated remarks (heavy traffic temporarily crashed his website) did not resemble the launch of an apology tour — not in the least. They sounded more like the start of a revenge tour. Here’s the relevant excerpt from the podcast:I am sad that I’m not on television anymore. I was very surprised how it all turned out. I can’t say a lot, because there’s much stuff going on right now.But I can tell you that I’m very confident the truth will come out, and when it does, I don’t know if you’re going to be surprised — but I think you’re going to be shaken, as I am. There’s a lot of stuff involved here.Now, I can’t say any more because I just don’t want to influence the flow of the information. I don’t want the media to take what I say and misconstrue it. However you, as a loyal O’Reilly listener, have a right to know, I think, down the lane what exactly happened. And we are working in that direction, okay?It is important to note that there is no clear reason O’Reilly “can't say any more.” The harassment allegations, chronicled in a New York Times report earlier this month, already have been settled. O’Reilly’s reported $25 million severance from Fox News presumably precludes him from suing the network, so there is no pending litigation that we know of.When O’Reilly says “the truth will come out,” he is not talking about the conclusion of some ongoing lawsuit. It appears that he is talking about an effort on his part to cast himself as the victim of some kind of left-wing conspiracy.That was a strategy mulled by O’Reilly's legal team during negotiations with Fox News, according to an email obtained by Politico. It looks as if O’Reilly is determined to make the case publicly that he was unjustly targeted, smeared and ruined by his liberal detractors.Clearly we have not heard the last of O’Reilly, and he won’t be sitting down to tell Barbara Walters or Oprah Winfrey how sorry he is anytime soon.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/04/24/trump-jokes-about-firing-nikki-haley-she-could-easily-be-replaced/?utm_term=.dab584ce8360
Trump jokes (?) about firing Nikki Haley: ‘She could easily be replaced’At a lunch with ambassadors from countries on the United Nations Security Council, President Trump joked that if the folks at the table didn't like U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley "she can easily be replaced." (The Washington Post)If there's one member of President Trump's team who has been a wild card early in his presidency, it's Nikki Haley. The United Nations ambassador has been a surprisingly strong presence, often making news about U.S. foreign policy in ways that seem somewhat, well, un-Trump.On Monday, Trump joked about firing her — quickly clarifying that she's doing a “fantastic job.”“She's doing a good job. Now does everybody like Nikki?” Trump asked at a meeting of U.N. Security Council ambassadors and their spouses. “Otherwise she could easily be replaced. Right?”Trump added: “No, we won't do that. I promise. She's doing a fantastic job.”Earlier this month, Haley told CNN that Trump doesn't limit her ability to speak out about policy:Haley, with no prior national security experience and once a vociferous Trump critic, has nevertheless emerged as an outspoken foreign policy figure defending Trump's worldview. And she's doing so from her perch as the US Ambassador to the United Nations, a narrow gig that has not always been at the vanguard of an administration's broader priorities.“He has given me a lot of leeway to just say what I think and interpret what he thinks,” Haley said of the president in an interview with CNN's Jamie Gangel. “I would never go rogue, because I'm very aware of who I work for.”But Haley has used the UN to offer a hawkish veneer for Trump's less interventionist foreign policy. She has blasted Russia in the wake of the domestic attack in Syria by Bashar al-Assad, which motivated a US airstrike by Trump earlier this month.“I'm a strong voice by nature. I'm sometimes a bull in a china shop,” she said. “And, you know, he allows me to do that.”President Trump with U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley during a working lunch with ambassadors of countries on the United Nations Security Council. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)Despite Haley's comments, Trump is reputed to be wary of aides getting too much publicity and overshadowing him.Russia and Syria are perhaps the best examples of Haley's message getting out in front of the White House's. After the chemical weapons attack in Syria, Haley went to the United Nations on April 5 and held up photos of the children who were targeted. The next day, Trump himself said such images had affected him and changed his viewpoint, and he launched military strikes against the Syrian government the day after that.Haley has also been more forward when talking about regime change in Syria, even as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has emphasized that defeating the Islamic State is Goal No. 1.And indeed, as Tillerson has sought to avoid the media, Haley seems to be filling the void and making news — sometimes with a more hawkish bent than the rest of the Trump administration. Vanity Fair has mused about whether Haley could find herself at odds with the State Department.All of which make Trump's joke Monday somewhat interesting. Of course, maybe it really is just a joke.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/04/24/stephen-k-bannon-performance-artist/?utm_term=.92018e58f315
Stephen K. Bannon, performance artist?White House chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon arrives at Andrews Air Force Base on April 9. (Jim Watson/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)Stephen K. Bannon was not an actor when he worked in Hollywood. That was not his job title, anyway. But the image of Bannon, the filmmaker, that comes through in a New Yorker profile is so different from the picture of Bannon the populist that you have to wonder whether he was playing a character back then — or whether the White House chief strategist is engaged in some kind of performance art now.Consider these highlights from Connie Bruck's article in the magazine's May 1 issue:These days, Bannon is a disheveled presence in the Oval Office, but he cut a different figure in Beverly Hills, where he looked the part of a Hollywood executive — fast-talking, smartly dressed, aggressively fit, carrying himself with what one former colleague described as an “alpha swagger.”He was a Republican, but not dogmatic, and he tried not to let his political beliefs get in the way of his work.He worked hard to join the Hollywood establishment, and several people who knew him said they were startled by his conversion to what one called “conservative political jihad.” Another said, “All the years I knew him, he just wanted to make a buck.”Bannon tried to keep his personal politics separate from his efforts to make money. By 2004, he was the chairman of a film distributor, American Vantage Media. He used American Vantage to acquire another distributor, Wellspring Media, which was well-respected and reliably liberal, and became its chairman.It is not unusual for personal styles and politics to evolve over the years, but Bannon's shifts seem calculated.Plus a lawyer for Infowars founder Alex Jones, another important figure in Trumpism, told a court in Austin this month that his client is “playing a character” and “is a performance artist.”Bruck wrote that after a period of political agnosticism, “Bannon sensed that the political mood of the country was changing” as the tea party became a force, around 2010.“That year,” Bruck noted, “he released three documentaries: 'Generation Zero,' which laid the blame for the financial crisis on the profligacy of liberal baby boomers; 'Fire from the Heartland,' which showcased the women of the tea party, above all Michele Bachmann; and 'Battle for America,' which rallied conservative voters. Citizens United Productions, a company created by Citizens United, produced all three Bannon documentaries in 2010.”A year later, Bannon produced a documentary about Sarah Palin — not because he actually believed in her, according to Bruck's reporting, but because he thought conservatives would. Bruck quoted an unnamed friend of Bannon who said: “His excitement about her was completely cynical. He thought she was a lightweight, but he was convinced she was going to be a star.”Another friend told Bruck that Bannon ditched his polished appearance because “he couldn't show up at the tea party dressed like that.”Conclusion: The version of Bannon that chaired Breitbart News and became one of Donald Trump's biggest boosters and closest advisers is a character assumed in pursuit of power.Alternative conclusion: The character was Bannon's former Hollywood self, and his current persona is the real deal.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/24/why-cutting-corporate-tax-and-raising-the-deficit-might-not-hurt-trump-politically/?utm_term=.b151a80646c6
Why cutting corporate tax and raising the deficit might not hurt Trump politicallyTreasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin (right) listens as President Trump speaks during a meeting on the federal budget in February. (Evan Vucci/Associated Press)For those who have tracked Republican politics over the past few years, the Trump administration’s proposal to slice the corporate tax rate without worrying about deficits seems like an anathema. President Trump himself repeatedly criticized his predecessor on the campaign trail for allowing the national debt to balloon, but here he is arguing that adding to that debt is of secondary concern to reducing taxes owed by big business. (To be fair, Trump also repeatedly talked about cutting corporate taxes as a candidate, often repeating the incorrect charge that American businesses faced the highest taxes in the world.)But recent polling bolsters the idea that the move is politically safe for Trump — assuming that he continues to be largely concerned with appeasing his base as opposed to expanding it outward.1. Concern about the deficit has declined over the past few years.Every month, Gallup asks Americans to identify their most important political issue. In January 2013, the second-most commonly cited concern was the deficit or the debt, in the wake of the Capitol Hill showdown over the “fiscal cliff.” At that time, 30 percent of Republicans considered it the most pressing issue, outpacing the 12 percent of Democrats who said the same.As President Barack Obama’s second term wound on, though, the issue faded in importance. In the most recent Gallup survey taken this month, only 3 percent of respondents said it was the most pressing political issue. In recent months, the number has been consistently in that range.2. Republicans are more, not less, likely to support increased deficits if it means cutting taxes.Last month, Quinnipiac University asked Americans how they felt about the prospect of across-the-board tax cuts — a broader category of reductions than what Trump appears to be about to propose, but the results were still suggestive.A plurality of Americans opposed such cuts, even if the effects didn’t increase the federal deficit. But nearly half of Republicans backed such cuts even if the deficit increased. Overall, three-quarters of Republicans backed cuts depending on how the deficit was affected, a far larger percentage then independents or Democrats who said the same.3. Trump voters are far more supportive of corporate cuts than other voters — and foresee far more positive effects.Shortly before Trump took office, Politico and the Harvard School of Public Health surveyed voters to gauge their interest in possible Trump focal points. Included among them was the question about tax cuts for corporations.While only about a fifth of respondents backed reducing corporate tax rates, Trump voters — perhaps primed by Trump’s candidacy — were nearly twice as supportive, with 39 percent of that group saying they backed the idea. Trump voters were also more likely to back cuts for upper- and middle-income Americans but, interestingly, were less likely to back cuts for poorer Americans.That same poll offered another clue as to why Trump fans might back corporate tax cuts: They were far more likely to foresee positive effects from doing so. More than 6 in 10 Trump voters figured that slashing corporate tax rates would result in a spike in jobs and economic growth, about twice the public on the whole. Only 5 percent of Trump backers figured that cutting corporate rates wouldn’t help create jobs or expand the economy; five times as much of the general population held that negative view.The summary makes the point clearly. Trump voters back corporate tax cuts, assuming that there will be economic growth to offset any increase in the deficit. That’s the argument that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin offered last week. Sure, non-Trump supporters and non-Republicans might balk — but if there’s one thing we’ve learned over the course of the past few months, it’s that such concerns don’t offer much pause to Trump.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/a-reelection-challenge-almost-as-big-as-texas/2017/04/24/7040a9e0-2769-11e7-b503-9d616bd5a305_story.html?utm_term=.fb9dd510d06c
A reelection challenge (almost) as big as TexasRepublican Rep. Will Hurd narrowly won a second term in what turned out to be the most expensive House race in Texas history. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)TORNILLO, Tex.  — Midterm elections are known to be brutal on the party in power, and if there is an anti-Republican wave in 2018, look for it to touch shore right here.The vast, volatile 23rd Congressional District of Texas is bigger in area than 29 states. It stretches from San Antonio to El Paso and includes about one-third of the entire U.S.-Mexico border.Its overwhelmingly Latino electorate last year went for Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential race. But it also reelected a Republican to the U.S. House — one of fewer than two dozen in the country to split that way.Rep. Will Hurd narrowly won a second term in what turned out to be the most expensive House race in Texas history. Democrats have put Hurd’s seat in their top five targets in 2018. He will also be running to beat the fickle tendencies of a district that has ousted four different incumbents since 2006.Chief among the issues where Hurd is at odds with Donald Trump is on the president’s signature campaign promise — the construction of a border wall, which would cover 820 miles in the 23rd District, much of it on private property. Trump is stepping up pressure on Congress to include money for the wall in a must-pass funding bill needed to keep the government open beyond Friday.In interviews with several dozen of Hurd’s constituents, not one expressed the opinion that building a wall is the best way to control problems on the border.Hurd speaks to his constituents at Fiesta San Antonio 2017. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)Hurd attends the JBSA-Lackland Air Force Base Fiesta Parade. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)Hurd came to the job with an unusual background for a cowboy-country politician. He is a former CIA agent who was stationed in Afghanistan and Pakistan (“I was the dude in back alleys at 4 o’clock in the morning”) and an African American representing a district where only 3 percent of the population is black.His survival strategy is a model for an endangered Republican delicately navigating the cross-currents of the Trump era. Its success will hinge in large part on whether the election becomes a referendum on the president, or on the identity Hurd has carved out for himself.Democrats need to pick up 24 seats to take back the House, and Hurd’s is one of three districts in Texas they think may be in reach, thanks to anti-Trump energy in their base. They are putting organizers here earlier than they ever have before.A scorching, dusty morning last week found the 39-year-old congressman in the desert outside El Paso, at the dedication ceremony of a project he has championed for two years. A border crossing was being renamed in honor of World War I’s most decorated Texan, a Mexican immigrant named Marcelino Serna.Hurd meets Gloria Serna before the Marcelino Serna Port of Entry Naming Ceremony on the US border with Mexico, in Tornillo, Texas, on Wednesday April 19, 2017. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)The 5-foot-6 Serna volunteered for the Army to avoid deportation, and at one point he single-handedly captured 24 enemy soldiers and killed 26 in France. That his Mexican citizenship made him ineligible for the nation’s highest military accolade, the Medal of Honor, has long been a sore point with El Paso-area veterans.“The Marcelino Serna Port of Entry will not only honor this extraordinary man’s service to our nation. It will serve as a reminder of the countless Hispanic American immigrants who have fought valiantly to keep our nation safe,” Hurd said. “Private Serna’s exemplary story is now more important than ever.”It was lost on no one there that Hurd was standing just a few hundred yards from where Trump’s wall would go. Currently, there is a fence, which local residents say has been effective in stemming illegal traffic.“Our country can do without walls,” said Ramon Holguin, a Vietnam veteran from San Elizario who voted for Trump because he was afraid Clinton would take away his guns. “It not only affects people. It affects our environment.”The congressman has been one of the most outspoken Republican critics of that proposal. Hurd says it would be an inefficient, impractical and wasteful “one-size-fits-all” means of controlling illegal immigration and reducing crime.In Hurd’s district and elsewhere throughout the state, support for enhancing border security runs strong. But there are also fears that a physical wall would violate the property rights that Texans hold dear, and be a kick in the gut to a regional economy heavily dependent on cross-border trade.“It could seriously turn the border into another Rust Belt, if we do not take the economic issues more seriously,” said Al Arreola Jr., president of the South San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. “This entire region is definitely going to be affected by decisions with respect to immigration and border security.”Arreola, who was having lunch with Hurd in a resurgent old neighborhood near downtown San Antonio, said merchants are already sensing a drop-off in the flow of tourists and daytripping shoppers from Mexico — something the busi­ness­peo­ple attribute to Trump’s harsh rhetoric.Nor is immigration the only area where Hurd parts company with the Republican president.Commuting from one part of his constituency to the other, Hurd works aboard a Southwest plane bound for San Antonio during a Congressional recess in El Paso, Texas Wednesday April 19, 2017. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)Where Trump dismisses reports of Russian hacking in last year’s election as a Democratic fantasy, Hurd — a member of the House Intelligence Committee investigating the matter — has said it “is going to go down in Russian history as the greatest covert action campaign.” The damage, Hurd added, comes not from any impact it might have had on the election outcome, but from the fact that it created a wedge between the president and the intelligence community, and rattled public trust.Hurd often traces his own decision to run for Congress to a briefing he gave nearly a decade ago, when he was an intelligence officer in Afghanistan, to a visiting delegation of Intelligence Committee members.One of them — Hurd refuses to say which lawmaker it was — asked him to explain the difference between a Shiite Muslim and a Sunni.“I thought it was the setup for an inappropriate joke,” he recalled. But when he realized someone sitting on the panel overseeing intelligence could be that ignorant of the great tribal divide in the Muslim world, he figured he could do a better job himself.By conference call from Kabul, Hurd organized a network of friends from his days as Texas A&M University student body president to start putting together a congressional campaign in the district, which is near the part of San Antonio where he grew up.“It was home town, and a district where a dark-horse candidate could win,” Hurd said. He lost the 2010 GOP primary in a runoff, but tried again and won in 2014.Hurd stays close to the ground and in constant motion across his district. Across the miles, it can also feel as though he is spanning centuries.Last Wednesday found him at launch ceremonies for Environmental Protection Agency-funded wastewater treatment facilities that will free 78 remote West Texas households from their reliance on unhygienic cesspools and failing septic tanks.Hurd visits and is given an overview of Open Cloud Academy. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)“When I was making the decision in Afghanistan to run for Congress, I didn’t know I’d be out here talking about sewage services, but this is the stuff people need,” Hurd said.The next morning began more than 500 miles and a time zone away, in a classroom at San Antonio’s high-tech Open Cloud Academy, where 15 students, mostly veterans, were training to work in cybersecurity. Hurd touted his efforts to expand GI Bill benefits to cover nontraditional courses in information technology.“Despite what you hear about Washington, D.C., there are some things people work together on,” he said.Hurd often boasts of the alliances and friendships he has forged across the partisan divide. When a snowstorm closed D.C. airports last month, he and a Democratic colleague, El Paso’s Beto O’Rourke, decided to drive back together, lighting up social media by live-streaming their 1,600-mile road trip for 29 hours.“He’s doing an outstanding job. From the very start, he distanced himself very sharply and very starkly from Donald Trump,” said Rice University political scientist Mark P. Jones. “He has the most centrist voting record of any Texas Republican, which also signals to voters in the district that he doesn’t always vote the party line.”Democrats, however, say all of this is window-dressing.“When it comes down to voting, and the pattern of what he actually does, he falls right in line with the rest of the Republican Party,” said Manny Garcia, deputy executive director of the Texas Democratic Party.Garcia noted, for instance, that Hurd voted to roll back President Barack Obama’s executive order that delayed deportation of undocumented immigrants brought to this country as children. Hurd also refused to say whether he would have voted for the failed proposal that House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) and Trump put forward to revise the Affordable Care Act.Hurd drives through his district on his way to a Port of San Antonio briefing. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)Democrats have two paid field organizers in the district, and are doing their best to tie Hurd to Trump. A week ago, more than 100 activists rallied outside the congressman’s San Antonio office to call for the president to release his tax returns.They have also complained that he lately has not been holding town halls, where his critics can vent their grievances about what Republicans are doing in Washington.Among the Democrats considering running next year is former Rep. Pete Gallego, whom Hurd defeated in 2014 and again two years later. One factor in his decision, Gallego said, is the possibility that a court-ordered redrawing of the district map could make it more favorable to a Democrat by removing some affluent parts of San Antonio.The political climate may also be shifting. Gallego said he recently attended an anti-Trump event in his tiny home town of Alpine, Tex., and was startled to see more than 150 people show up on a Saturday morning. Usually, he said, 20 is considered a good crowd in a town that size.Then again, there will also be forces working in Hurd’s favor. Texas Republicans generally turn out in heavier numbers than Democrats in off-year elections, and in 2018, popular Republican Gov. Greg Abbott will be at the top of the ticket.As Hurd is well aware, however, big political waves have a way of washing out even the best defenses. So he is determined to move faster than it does.“One of the things I heard when I was running was that people didn’t feel they’d seen their representative,” he said. “I’m going to kiss every baby in these 29 counties.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-disrupter-president-and-the-do-little-congress/2017/04/24/e2a47118-290a-11e7-b605-33413c691853_story.html?utm_term=.3759c53bf66f
The disrupter president and the do-little CongressPresident Trump, sitting next to U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, speaks during a working lunch with ambassadors of countries on the U.N. Security Council and their spouses at the White House on April 24. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By Dan Balz   By Dan Balz        Chief correspondent  April 24 at 6:31 PM     Follow @danbalzWill President Trump and congressional Republicans ever understand one another? Over time, they might accomplish things of mutual interest. Big things, perhaps. But the mismatch between the disrupter president and what has been a business-as-usual, do-little Congress seems especially evident as the 100-day mark of the administration nears.The president came to Washington on a mission to shake up the status quo. He prizes big and bold action and, absent that, a little showmanship. He wants to make this week one of the best of his short tenure, so he’s loading up with activities that will keep him visible and in motion. But as of Monday, he has no legislative accomplishment to pin on his wall and the prospects for changing that this week are mixed at best.No wonder Trump is dissatisfied and impatient. Congress has been mired in status quo politics for years. Now, even with a president of their own party and majorities in the House and Senate, congressional Republicans have been stuck. Trump tries to prod Congress to act, not always forgiving of why things move slowly. Congressional leaders try to educate the president on the limits and culture of the legislative process.The past few days have highlighted the disconnect between the two ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. Trump wants to tell the world that he has begun to change Washington and the country big time, that he is moving the government in dramatically new directions. His advisers are armed with talking points to prove it — steps that highlight movement on campaign promises on immigration and trade and business regulation.To really make good on his promise to change the status quo, however, the president needs help from Congress. He and congressional Republicans suffered an embarrassing setback this spring when House leaders pulled the bill to replace the Affordable Care Act. Trump would like to see the House approve a bill to do that this week. Officials continue to push for that to happen.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)The message from Congress at the beginning of this big week could not be more prosaic or uninspired. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) indicated over the weekend that the first — and perhaps only — priority for the House this week will be the funding bill, and that health care can wait for a week or a few weeks, if necessary. These funding battles have tied up Congress in the past and in 2013 led to a partial shutdown of the government. Congressional leaders know the damage a shutdown would inflict and want nothing to get in the way of resolving remaining differences.But the message sent is anything but what Trump would want. Instead of dramatic action, instead of acting on one of the president’s big priorities, it’s possible that the most Congress might accomplish by the president’s 100th day in office is another compromise funding agreement, or perhaps merely a short-term continuing resolution that would keep the machinery of government running while negotiations continue. If the House were to take up health care and pass a bill in the next few days, that action could have a big effect on how the week ultimately is judged.[Showdown looms over funding for border wall]Trump is doing little to make Ryan’s job easier on the funding battle. He wants money for his famous border wall included in the legislation to keep the government funded. The wall is one of Trump’s signature issues, and one especially important to his base, so he is loath to get to this 100-day symbolic marker of his presidency without evidence that he has made progress on acquiring the funds to get it started.White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus tried to signal Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that funding for “border security” was the avenue for a possible face-saving way to keep the government from being shut down. But amid whatever quieter negotiations are underway between lawmakers and White House officials, the president continues to interject himself in all the ways for which he’s become famous.He tweeted twice on Monday about the wall. “The Wall is a very important tool in stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth (and many others)!” he wrote. “If the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be! #BuildTheWall.”Hours later, he tweeted about health care. “If our healthcare plan is approved, you will see real healthcare and premiums will start tumbling down. ObamaCare is in a death spiral!” About that time, White House press secretary Sean Spicer was briefing reporters, noting that health care will come to a vote when House leaders determine that they have the votes to pass it. In other words, no promises when.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)Trump also disrupted his own team when, on Friday, he declared that he would put his tax plan into public view this week. What’s coming appears likely to be little more than principles, rather than proposed legislation. Those principles might not go any further than the tax plans he proposed during the campaign. It will be more motion without real action.That’s the difference between the presidency and Capitol Hill. Trump likes to say things and sign things. And so, day after day, surrounded by aides or people from the outside, he makes announcements, or he puts his signature — in big strokes — on official documents, whether executive orders or presidential memorandums. These orders are not without impact, symbolically and eventually practically. He signs them and moves on. He will sign more this week ahead of the 100-day mark.[Inside Trump’s obsession with cable TV]The legislative process doesn’t comport with his approach to governing. There are subcommittees and full committees, hearings and testimony, and eventually the marking up of legislation. Then there is the process of rounding up votes and holding together what has proved to be as fractured a House majority as existed before Trump arrived. House and Senate versions must be reconciled after each chamber has acted. Only then can Trump affix his signature to real legislation.It can be slow, slow, slow, as the framers intended. It was not made for the age of Twitter or 24/7 cable punditry, and certainly not for the era and impulses of President Trump. Perhaps he will reconcile himself to the realities, but first he is trying to prod and poke and make clear his displeasure at the pace of things.Ryan and the president remain at odds, as they’ve been since Trump became the Republican Party’s presidential nominee last year. They have mutual interests but competing responsibilities, and sometimes competing ideas and priorities. They are as different as they can be, a wonky conservative House leader and a skim-the-surface president with views that range indifferently across the ideological spectrum.But this is more than a personality difference. The disconnect between the speaker and the president is in microcosm the gap between a president who took down the establishment in both parties last year and lawmakers in the branch of government that most symbolizes what he ran against. Trump hasn’t mastered Washington or Congress, and congressional Republicans haven’t mastered him. That much is known at the beginning of this notable week.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/sotomayor-sees-disturbing-trend-of-unequal-treatment-regarding-police-alleged-victims/2017/04/24/dfe8c368-2912-11e7-b605-33413c691853_story.html?utm_term=.1b339e3118ac
Sotomayor sees ‘disturbing trend’ of unequal treatment regarding police, alleged victimsU.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor speaks at St. Francis College in New York in February. (Kathy Willens/AP)By Robert Barnes   By Robert Barnes        April 24 at 6:25 PM     Follow @scotusreporterSupreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote Monday that the court is developing a “disturbing trend” of siding with police officers accused of excessive force at the expense of their alleged victims, a notion disputed by two of her colleagues.Sotomayor was arguing that the court should have accepted the case of Richardo Salazar-Limon, who was shot in the back by Houston police officer Chris Thompson in 2010. A federal district judge dismissed Salazar-Limon’s suit before trial, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit upheld that decision.What happened in the incident that left Salazar-Limon crippled is disputed, Sotomayor wrote in her dissent, and a decision on which man is telling the truth should be made by “a jury sitting as finder of fact, not a judge reviewing a paper record.”What made Sotomayor’s dissent unusual was the criticism of the court’s past decisions.Her colleagues’ failure to accept the case “continues a disturbing trend regarding the use of this court’s resources,” Sotomayor wrote in an opinion joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.[Supreme Court finds for Texas trooper who shot fleeing suspect]“We have not hesitated to summarily reverse courts for wrongly denying officers the protection of qualified immunity in cases involving the use of force,” Sotomayor said. “But we rarely intervene where courts wrongly afford officers the benefit of qualified immunity in these same cases.”That drew a rebuttal from Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who was joined by Justice Clarence Thomas. Sotomayor cited five cases, Alito wrote, but “in all but one of those cases there was no published dissent.” She “has not identified a single case in which we failed to grant a similar petition filed by an alleged victim of unconstitutional police conduct.”As the issue of police shootings has taken on new prominence in the national debate, Sotomayor has been the justice most outspoken about whether police officers too often have received the legal benefit of the doubt.In 2015, she was the lone dissenter to a ruling that a Texas state trooper who shot and killed a fleeing suspect in a high-speed chase could not be held civilly liable for the man’s death, even though the officer’s superior had told him not to shoot.[Florida police officer charged for shooting unarmed man who had arms raised]Sotomayor said her colleagues were “sanctioning a ‘shoot first, think later’ approach.”In the case at the court  Monday, Sotomayor said it was unclear who was in the wrong. Thompson had stopped Salazar-Limon because he suspected the man was driving drunk. The two were involved in a struggle when the officer tried to handcuff the suspect. Salazar-Limon started walking back to his vehicle when Thompson drew his gun and told him to stop.Salazar-Limon said Thompson then almost immediately shot him in the back. Thompson said Salazar-Limon had raised his hands toward his waistband, as if for a weapon, when the officer fired. No gun was found on Salazar-Limon.In a footnote, Sotomayor noted media reports of an “increasing frequency of incidents in which unarmed men allegedly reach for empty waistbands when facing armed officers.”Lower courts said Salazar-Limon had offered no “controverting evidence” to Thompson’s testimony that the suspect had reached for his waistband, which had made the officer’s use of force reasonable.But Sotomayor said that the men offered differing accounts and that a jury should have decided which was believable.“What is clear is that our legal system does not entrust the resolution of this dispute to a judge faced with competing affidavits. The evenhanded administration of justice does not permit such a shortcut,” she wrote.Alito countered that there was nothing unusual about the case.“Every year the courts of appeals decide hundreds of cases in which they must determine whether thin evidence provided by a plaintiff is just enough to survive a motion for summary judgment or not quite enough,” he wrote. “This is one such case.”None of the other justices remarked upon the decision not to hear Salazar-Limon v. City of Houston.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/supreme-court-to-decide-whether-defendants-are-entitled-to-a-mental-health-expert-on-their-side/2017/04/24/9bc65966-2926-11e7-b605-33413c691853_story.html?utm_term=.299152896142
Supreme Court to decide whether defendants are entitled to a mental-health expert on their sideThe Supreme Court’s liberals and conservatives seemed to disagree Monday on whether an Alabama inmate was entitled to a mental-health expert who would be on his side in fighting the state’s attempt to sentence him to death.The justices were examining James McWilliams’s 1986 death sentence and an even older Supreme Court precedent. But their decision will be immediately relevant. The Arkansas Supreme Court recently stayed the execution of two men on its death row until the justices decide McWilliams v. Dunn.[Arkansas attempts to executive eight before lethal injection drugs expire]The U.S. Supreme Court ruled previously that poor defendants whose mental health might explain their criminal actions have a right to expert evaluation. Monday’s argument was about whether that expert should be on the defendant’s side, not just neutral.Atlanta lawyer Stephen B. Bright, representing McWilliams, said the intent of the Supreme Court’s 1985 decision in Ake v. Oklahoma was clear: to ensure that poor defendants have a chance to have the kind of expert assistance that wealthy defendants and state prosecutors could afford.“It at least gives the defense a shot, at least gives them one competent mental-health expert that they can talk to, understand what the issues are, present them as best they can,” Bright said.But conservative justices said the Ake opinion was not so clear that more than a neutral expert was necessary. Perhaps intentionally so, said Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.“This is an opinion that is deliberately ambiguous, because there was probably disagreement among the members of the majority about how far they wanted to go,” Alito said.Alabama Solicitor General Andrew L. Brasher acknowledged in response to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s questioning that almost all jurisdictions provide the kind of expert help to poor defendants that McWilliams seeks. But older cases should not be seen through “2017 eyes” but by what was required at the time.McWilliams was convicted of the 1984 rape, robbery and murder of convenience store clerk Patricia Vallery Reynolds in Tuscaloosa, Ala. Before sentencing, a state psychologist who examined McWilliams said he had “organic brain damage” and records showed he had received psychotropic drugs in prison.But all of that came just two days before sentencing, and defense lawyers requested a delay and professional help in deciphering what that meant for McWilliams’s case.The judge refused and sentenced McWilliams to death.Liberal Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan seemed convinced that the court’s decades-old ruling specifically called for more than just a neutral expert examining the defendant.Kagan quoted what she called the “money sentence” in Ake as directing that “the state must assure the defendant access to a competent psychiatrist who will assist in evaluation, preparation and presentation of the defense.”She tried to count all the times the opinion used the word “assist” and lost track, she said. She added: “It means somebody on the defendant’s side.”Justice Stephen G. Breyer seemed to agree with that standard and said that “it seems to me that this defendant certainly did not get that help.”As is often the case, it may be that Justice Anthony M. Kennedy holds the deciding vote.He seemed to believe the Ake decision was ambiguous. But if the original decision meant a psychiatrist must be available and “then over time it becomes clear to us that that psychiatrist must be retained for the benefit of the defense only,” perhaps that is only a “refinement” of the clearly established right, not a completely new finding, Kennedy said. That suggested an easier path for Bright’s argument.New Justice Neil M. Gorsuch seemed to side with Alabama, wondering how far expert help for the defense would have to extend. And he said that one way to understand what the Supreme Court meant in Ake was to look at what defense counsel had asked for. He said lawyers would have been happy with either a neutral psychiatrist or one on their side.When Brasher agreed, Kagan responded in a way that seemed directed both at the lawyer and the new justice.“I think that that would be a shocking way to interpret this court’s opinions,” she said. The way to interpret them, she said, is to look at what they actually require, regardless of what the lawyers who brought them asked for.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/04/24/senate-staff-perplexed-by-unusual-white-house-private-briefing-on-north-korea/?utm_term=.ddd59fcfa05d
Senate staff perplexed by unusual White House private briefing on North KoreaWhite House press secretary Sean Spicer on April 24 announced that the White House will host a meeting on North Korea for all senators. (The White House)The White House announced Monday that it would host an unusual private briefing on North Korea for the entire Senate, prompting questions from lawmakers about whether the Trump administration intends to use the event as a photo op ahead of its 100-day mark.Press secretary Sean Spicer told reporters that the lawmakers would be briefed Wednesday by several senior administration officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. He emphasized that the meeting plan had been convened by Senate leadership and that the White House was serving “as the location.”Yet the White House setting perplexed lawmakers who have grown accustomed to such briefings taking place in a secure location on Capitol Hill, where there is more room to handle such a large group.[Trump gets on the phone to Asia as another North Korea flash point looms]Past administrations have often held briefings for smaller groups of about two dozen or fewer lawmakers in the White House Situation Room. But they have traditionally sent high-level aides to Capitol Hill to hold discussions with larger groups in secure underground locations.A senior Trump administration official said the meeting with senators will take place in the auditorium at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the building next to the White House that houses most of the National Security Council. The auditorium will be temporarily turned into a “sensitive compartmented information facility,” or SCIF, which is the term for a room where sensitive national security information can be shared, the official said.Such facilities are configured to withstand eavesdropping or other technical snooping.David Popp, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), explained that "The President offered to host the meeting and the Majority Leader agreed."Other Senate leadership staffers signaled that most, if not all, senators in both parties are expected to attend the White House briefing.But the unusual location left many staffers scratching their heads.In recent years during debates surrounding Syria's civil war, terrorist attacks in Europe and the FBI’s investigation into Russian interference in U.S. elections, Cabinet secretaries and senior law enforcement officials have traveled to Capitol Hill to brief lawmakers.“These briefings are always, always, always done in the SCIF up here,” one Senate aide, who was not authorized to talk on the record and so spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Monday. “Does it mean classified information is going to be shared in an unsecured setting? Or that we’re not hearing about classified material?”Another senior aide, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity, said it was President Trump’s idea to hold the meeting at the White House.“I heard this came from Trump himself, that in a nutshell he said, ‘Why don’t we have them up here instead?’ ” the aide said.The senior administration official confirmed that Trump offered the White House complex as a location and that McConnell accepted.Kim Jong Un has tested nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles at an unprecedented rate since he came into power. Yet, the country is under some of the toughest sanctions ever. This is how the regime is able to funnel billions of dollars into its nuclear program. (Jason Aldag/The Washington Post)Congressional staffers suggested that the briefing’s proximity to Trump would make it easy for him to “drop by” and perhaps take over the briefing.The image of senators meeting with Trump at the White House on a top national security concern could be touted by the White House as a key moment in the run-up to Trump’s 100th day in office — a milestone that the president has mocked in recent days but that his administration is working aggressively to promote.At a lunch at the White House, April 24, President Trump told ambassadors from countries on the U.N. Security Council that they must be prepared to impose new sanctions on North Korea amid escalating tensions over its missile and nuclear programs. (Reuters)Trump has sought to strike a tougher tone on North Korea in the wake of Pyongyang's latest weapons tests, which included a failed missile test this month. On Monday, U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley hosted counterparts from the U.N. Security Council in Washington to discuss the security situation in Syria and North Korea, and Trump met with them and posed for a picture with the group, officials said.“The status quo in North Korea is also unacceptable,” Trump told the U.N. ambassadors, Reuters reported. “The council must be prepared to impose additional and stronger sanctions on North Korean nuclear and ballistic missile programs.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/04/24/in-chicago-obama-tells-young-leaders-that-special-interests-dominate-the-debates-in-washington/?utm_term=.54b84235e0b3
In Chicago, Obama tells young leaders that ‘special interests dominate the debates in Washington’On April 24, in his first public appearance since leaving office, former president Barack Obama spoke with young adults in Chicago on finding common ground in Washington politics. (The Washington Post)CHICAGO — In his first public appearance since leaving the White House in January, former president Barack Obama told young leaders here Monday that “special interests dominate the debates in Washington” and that getting involved in their communities is the best antidote to the divisiveness dominating the country's politics.Obama, who has kept a relatively low public profile since the end of his second term, did not mention President Trump once during the 90-minute event at the University of Chicago, but said he was determined to galvanize younger Americans to do more politically because they were the ones best positioned to bridge the current political divide.“The single most important thing I can do is to help in any way prepare the next generation of leadership to take up the baton and to take their own crack at changing the world,” said Obama, who sat onstage, wearing a black suit, white button-down shirt and no tie, with a half-dozen Chicago-area activists in their teens and 20s, as dozens more student leaders watched on.He admitted that he failed to realize his “aspirational” goal of uniting Americans in red and blue states, but said the country is not as divided as it sometimes seems.“That was an aspirational comment,” the former president said of his famous 2004 Democratic National Convention speech, prompting laughter from the audience at the University of Chicago. He added that when talking to individual Americans from different political backgrounds, you learn that “there’s a lot more that people have in common” than it would appear. “But, obviously, it’s not true when it comes to our politics and our civic life.”[Obama's post-presidency is like no other]In keeping with his previous vow not to criticize his successor, Obama — speaking days before Trump's 100-day mark — made little mention of Republicans' rush to dismantle his legacy back in Washington as quickly as possible. Republicans are debating whether to try again this week to dismantle parts of the Affordable Care Act after failing to vote on a bill in March. Trump has signed executive orders and bills from Congress undoing Obama-era regulations on everything from climate change to guns. And the Senate just appointed a conservative to fill a vacancy on the Supreme Court after refusing to hold nomination hearings last year on Obama's pick, D.C. Circuit Court Chief Judge Merrick Garland.Obama referred to none of that. Instead, he focused on political polarization, which he ascribed to gerrymandered electoral districts, money in politics, a politicized media and voter apathy, especially among young people.“The one thing I'm absolutely convinced of is: Yes, we confront a whole range of challenges, from economic inequality and lack of opportunity, to the criminal justice system to climate change to issues related to violence. All those problems are serious, they're daunting,” Obama said. “But they're not insolvable. What is preventing us from tackling them and making more progress really has to do with our politics and our civic life.”The session, which took place at an intimate hall near where he got started as a community organizer, and a few miles away from where he gave his carefully orchestrated farewell address this year, marks the start of public appearances the former president will deliver in the United States and overseas. He'll be in Boston next month to receive the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award, and in Berlin to meet with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Italy to attend the The Global Food Innovation Summit.His wife, Michelle, for her part, will deliver her first paid speech Friday in Orlando at a meeting of the American Institute of Architects.On Sunday, Obama had met behind closed doors with members of Chicago Create Real Economic Destiny (CRED) program, an initiative headed by his former education secretary, Arne Duncan, which aims to provide job opportunities for the city's at-risk young adults. An aide said in an email that the meeting was “the first in ongoing conversations and efforts” by the Obamas to work with private and public groups “that are committed to tackling violence, poverty and unemployment in communities around the country.”Monday's audience was filled mostly with aspiring Chicago-area college students, dressed in their best suits and ties, many of whom grew up watching and cheering Obama's political rise.Jon LeVert and Marquise Davion, both student government leaders and film majors at the Columbia College Chicago, said they were looking for the former president to give some assurance that things aren't as bad as they hear it is in Washington, and a road map on how to make things better in their communities.“We have these people excited to do something, it'd be great to hear from him: You can do this by x, x and x,” Davion said.While Obama tried repeatedly during the event to emphasize the legitimacy of different political viewpoints, noting that many Americans want immigration to be “lawful and orderly” and that it is important “not to assume that everybody who has problems with the current immigration system is racist,” it remains unclear whether the message he was hoping to convey would take root. The political polarization he decried was on display just outside the hall where he spoke: Three protesters stood outside with white posters taped to their backpacks that read, “Obama, we are not on the same intramural team as Trump.”As he talked on stage, the former University of Chicago law professor sounded less like a lecturer than an inquisitor. “What is it that you think would make the big difference in young people saying, 'If I volunteer for this, I might make a difference?' " he asked high school senior Ayanna Watkins after pointing out that only one-third of young people vote in midterm elections.As Obama pressed the point, panelist Ramuel Figueroa offered that activists need to “connect personal problems to policy issues” to get people invested in elections.“If you’re working two jobs and can’t afford day care, it’s not because you’re lazy,” said Figuero, an undergraduate at Roosevelt University who had served in the military before starting college. Of activists, he said, “You need to demonstrate some connection.”And Obama probed the political divide that exists on college campuses, which tend to be overwhelmingly liberal. All of the hand-picked panel members were Democrats except for one Republican, University of Chicago undergraduate Max M. Freedman. Asked by Obama whether he has a hard time being heard on a college campus as a Republican, Freedman replied, “You can expect some level of ostracization from certain people.”“There’s a significant empathy gap, not just here, but everywhere. … We’ve cloistered ourselves,” Freedman said. “Civic engagement, at some point, will require a level of civility.”During his time in office, Obama relished holding town halls with young people while traveling overseas. Monday's event had a similar feel, though he was visibly looser than he was while serving as president. Even as he bemoaned how Americans had created news silos through their social media feeds, he joked, “Or maybe you're just looking at cat videos, which is fine.” At another point, he noted that while his use of marijuana in his youth had not hurt his political career because he was forthright about it, “I would advise all of you to be a little more circumspect, in terms of your selfies.”Obama's re-entrance into the public spotlight comes at a time when there really is no clear leader of the Democratic Party, and its grass-roots base is demanding one.The former president did not mention his party's struggles after its disappointing 2016 election, but he said he wants to be a resource for young people looking to get involved politically, especially through a post-presidency foundation he is setting up. He framed engaging younger people as the best antidote to a divisive Washington.“There's a reason why I am optimistic, even when things aren't going the way I want,” he said as he wrapped up his appearance. “And that's because of young people like this.”Obama's interest in young leaders heartened Dorian Meighen, a student at Roosevelt University: “All that he did, he will still continue doing, and he'll still be there to help people even though he's not in office.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/senate-expected-to-confirm-perdue-as-agriculture-secretary/2017/04/24/82daf622-2468-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.9d0cb9746ace
Senate confirms Perdue as agriculture secretaryFormer Georgia governor Sonny Perdue, President Trump’s nominee for agriculture secretary, testifies on Capitol Hill during his confirmation hearing on March 23. (Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)By Jose A. DelReal  and Caitlin Dewey   By Jose A. DelReal  and Caitlin Dewey        April 24 at 3:00 PM     Follow jdelreal  Follow @caitlindeweyFormer Georgia governor Sonny Perdue was confirmed Monday as secretary of the Agriculture Department, bringing into President Trump’s Cabinet an experienced politician with deep support among agricultural interests.Perdue faced few obstacles to confirmation — the vote Monday was 87 to 11 — after a collegial confirmation hearing last month before the Senate Agriculture Committee, where senators used their testimony time to raise questions about Trump’s budget. Support for Perdue extended far beyond Washington. The former Georgia governor has received thumbs up from hundreds of food and agricultural groups nationwide, including major groups such as the Farm Bureau and the National Restaurant Association.But Perdue may have to contend with deep cuts to the USDA proposed by the president’s budget, which could disproportionately affect rural residents and farmers nationwide, pitting him between the White House’s priorities and those of rural and agricultural interest groups.“Our farmers and ranchers have long been waiting for this important role to be filled,” Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said prior to the vote Monday. “Once Governor Perdue becomes Secretary Perdue, I know he will put the needs of farmers and ranchers -- and rural America -- first.”During his confirmation hearings, Perdue told senators that he supports many of the programs that could be cut by Trump’s budget, particularly those that focus on agricultural research and rural infrastructure development. The Trump administration has proposed cutting $4.7 billion from the department’s 2018 budget, or 20 percent of its discretionary spending. That proposal — known as the “skinny budget” — has few details about which programs would face reductions. More are expected next month when the White House introduces a more detailed budget plan.How long Cabinet confirmations take – and why past nominees failed  View GraphicHow long Cabinet confirmations take – and why past nominees failedPerdue, whose confirmation stalled for months, did not have a hand in crafting that budget. During his confirmation hearing, he sought to assuage senators’ concerns with large rural constituencies, promising to “do everything in my power” to “manage” Trump’s priorities against the needs of small towns and farmers.Sen. Debbie Stabenow (Mich.), the committee’s ranking Democrat, said that Trump’s first months in office have treated rural America as an afterthought.“For months, rural America has not had a voice in this administration and frankly it shows,” she said before Monday’s vote. “President Trump’s budget proposal makes it clear that rural America is not a priority for this administration.”Although Perdue has received considerable support in the Senate and from agricultural interest groups, ethics watchdogs have raised concerns about his agro-business holdings. During his tenure as governor, from 2003 to 2011, he declined to place his business interests in a blind trust and regularly came up against the state ethics commission. More than a dozen ethics complaints were filed against him during that time.Despite those concerns, no members of the committee questioned his ethics record. In consultation with the Office of Government Ethics, Perdue agreed to organize his business holdings — including a Georgia-based grain merchandiser, AGrowStar — into a trust that will not benefit him or his wife.Perdue is only the second agriculture secretary in history not to pass by unanimous vote; the last such nominee was Secretary Richard Lyng in 1986. Perdue was opposed by several prominent Democrats, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).Perdue’s confirmation leaves two Cabinet-level nominees awaiting full Senate confirmation: Alexander Acosta for labor secretary and Robert E. Lighthizer for trade representative.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/24/trumps-first-100-days-according-to-the-group-that-matters-most-many-people/?utm_term=.3168521971f8
Trump’s first 100 days according to the group that matters most: ‘Many people’President Trump speaks at Snap-On Tools on April 18 in Kenosha, Wis. (Kiichiro Sato/AP)President Trump won his election thanks in large part to the strong support of white voters without college degrees, a group that stood with Trump’s candidacy nearly from the outset and never wavered. But no group has been more supportive of Trump, on nearly every issue and comment, than “many people.”Who is “many people”? Well, it is a group that is a lot of people, presented by Trump as evidence that he is reflecting the will of the people without going through such cumbersome details as identifying who they are or pointing to polling that backs up his claims. For example, Trump said during a debate in September 2015 that many people — most people, even — apologized to him when they discovered that his campaign-launch speech’s claims about crime perpetrated by immigrants in the country illegally was correct. Granted, studies suggest that his claims were incorrect, but who cares what a “study” says when, in contrast, many people went so far as to apologize to Trump for thinking him incorrect?[Trump’s over-the-top, boastful AP interview, annotated]With Trump’s 100th day in office arriving this week, we figured we’d evaluate his presidency so far through the lens of what this nebulous-but-critical constituency is saying. Here, according to Trump, is what most people or many people or, at least, a lot of people are saying about his presidency and his politics.Many people agree that there might be millions of votes cast illegally last year. (Interview with David Muir, Jan. 25.)People loved his speech at the CIA. (Muir.)People loved and liked his inaugural address. (Muir.)Many people thought that his inaugural address was optimistic. (Interview with CBN, Jan. 26.)Many people have come out and said that Trump is correct about his claim that millions of people voted illegally last November. (Interview with Bill O’Reilly, Feb. 5.)A lot of people say that Trump was only kidding about the wall but they are wrong. (Speech at MCCA, Feb. 8.)A lot of people are liking Neil M. Gorsuch very much on the other side of the political aisle but they may not vote for him because of politics. (Roundtable discussion, Feb. 9.)A lot of people consider Supreme Court picks to be one of the more important presidential duties. (Roundtable.)A lot of people are very happy right now because of the deportations his administration has effected. (Remarks at a news conference with the prime minister of Canada, Feb. 13.)A lot of people are happy he’s following through on campaign commitments. (News conference, Feb. 16.)A lot of people don’t know that the Air Force One proposal involves building two airplanes. (Rally in Florida, Feb. 18.)A lot of people think that the increase he wants to make to military spending is a lot of money. (“Fox and Friends” interview, Feb. 27.)A lot of people understand that he said that the U.S. needed to deport criminals in the country illegally. (“Fox and Friends.”)Many people have said that federal regulations have been catastrophic. (Comments at the White House, Feb. 27.)Betsy DeVos has had such support from so many people. Many people were calling her and saying she will do a fantastic job. (Comments.)A lot of people were surprised he won Michigan in last year’s election. (Roundtable discussion in Michigan, March 15.)A lot of people thanked him for eliminating “anti-coal legislation.” (Rally in Kentucky, March 20.)Many people and companies are into what NASA stands for. (Comments at a bill-signing, March 21.)A lot of people don’t know that Abraham Lincoln was a Republican. (Speech at a National Republican Campaign Committee dinner, March 21.)A lot of people don’t realize how good the Republican health-care bill was because they were only looking at the first phase of it. (Remarks from the Oval Office, March 24.)A lot of people don’t know that Jeff Sessions was a U.S. attorney. (Roundtable discussion, March 28.)A lot of people don’t know that Mar-a-Lago was built to be the Southern White House. (Roundtable discussion, March 31.)A lot of people are saying that the New York Times’ Maggie Haberman was a P.R. person for Hillary Clinton. (Interview with the Times, April 4. “Mostly you,” Haberman replied.)So many people are apologizing to him for having been right about Susan Rice. (Interview with Fox Business, April 11.)A large number of people want to hear the story of how he told the president of China that he was launching missile strikes against Syria. (Fox Business.)Many people come to see him and say they are unable to borrow from banks. (Roundtable discussion, April 11.)Most people don’t know that he has to approve payments to insurers to cover Obamacare subsidies. (Interview with the Wall Street Journal, April 12.)A lot of people don’t know that Italy is one of America’s largest trading partners. (Remarks welcoming the prime minister of Italy, April 20.)A lot of people are liking the Republican health-care bill a lot because it gets better and better and better. (Prime minister remarks.)Many people — human rights people — are talking about how Trump negotiated the release of charity worker Aya Hijazi. (Interview with the Associated Press, April 24.)People have given Trump credit for having great chemistry with all of the world leaders, including Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi. (AP interview.)A lot of people have said that his joint address to Congress was the single best speech ever made in that chamber. (AP interview.)A lot of people don’t watch CNN any more. (AP interview.)
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/24/how-america-feels-about-abortion/?utm_term=.4f9efb334341
How America feels about abortionHere's what abortion was like in the United States before and after the landmark Supreme Court case, and where it may be headed next. (Gillian Brockell/The Washington Post)When Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez declared Friday that “every Democrat, like every American, should support a woman’s right to make her own choices about her body and her health,” he instantaneously stirred up a completely predictable furor. The issue was raised because of Sen. Bernie Sanders’s decision to rally on behalf of a Democratic candidate for mayor of Omaha despite the candidate’s past opposition to abortion. That visible support rankled pro-choice Democrats and prompted Perez to issue his blanket admonition.That the furor was predictable doesn’t mean that it’s not without nuance. Although the political shorthand on issues of choice tends to be that Democrats support the right to legal abortion and Republicans don’t, there’s broad variance within the parties on the issue of abortion itself and on the scope of what might justify the procedure.The General Social Survey has asked Americans about their views on abortion for several decades. (The survey, funded primarily by the National Science Foundation, was conducted through in-person interviews with a random national sample of about 1,900 adults in spring 2016.) Instead of a blanket “Are you for or against legal abortion?” question, the survey breaks out responses by party identity and the question by motivation for the procedure. Although “strong Democrats” are more broadly supportive of the ability to have an abortion, there’s support and opposition across the political spectrum and across the rationales for having an abortion.More than 80 percent of “strong Republicans” agree that a woman whose life is at risk should be able to have a legal abortion. Only about half of strong Democrats think that a woman should be able to have an abortion for any reason. The implication? A lot of Democrats see nuance in how abortion should be available — and a lot of Republicans aren’t universally opposed to the idea.In the 1970s, opinions on whether women should be able to have a legal abortion for any reason were generally the same among Democrats, independents and Republicans. (Here, we are excluding leaning independents and strong Democrats and Republicans. Essentially, it’s the second, fourth and sixth circles of the first row on the graph above.) Over time, support among Democrats became stronger and support among Republicans slightly lower.Unsurprisingly, there’s a split along gender lines. Surprisingly, it’s not that large. Overall, the 2016 survey found that 45.5 percent of men and 44.4 percent of women agreed that legal abortion should be available if a women wants it for any reason.Democratic women have consistently been more likely to support the idea than independent or Republican women, but only since the 1990s.Democratic men are more likely than independents and Republicans to think that women should be able to seek an abortion for whatever reason — but that hasn’t always been the case. (The variations on this graph are largely a function of smaller sample sizes.)All of which is a long way of reinforcing the idea that views are nuanced. But Perez, as head of the Democratic Party, isn’t in the business of rewarding nuance. There is a vocal, active and organized part of his party for whom his litmus test was less controversial than it was essential. His litmus test — as it was quickly described — spurred a number of responses demanding or reiterating that the Democratic Party be welcoming to those who oppose legal abortion. (Among those bucking Perez was House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, who suggested that there is still space in the party for those who aren’t fervently pro-choice.)Generally, though, there simply aren’t that many people who vote first and foremost on the issue of abortion. A Gallup poll from May found that one-fifth of Americans say that a candidate he or she supports must share their views on the issue. About 28 percent said it wasn’t a major issue; about half said it was one of many issues.Perez’s statement was gambling that he could placate the 20 percent who vote on abortion and are members of his party, while assuming that the abortion opponents who are in that group are already voting Republican and that everyone else might look past his comment.It reinforces, though, the question at the heart of Perez’s tenure: What should the Democratic Party be? Should it follow Sanders’s lead and put economics above everything else? Should it have a strong focus on the diaspora of progressive issues such as choice, offering a big tent for a lot of hard-line positions? Should it simply be the anti-Republican Party?On Friday, Perez demonstrated how tricky answering those questions will be.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/23/two-thirds-of-americans-think-that-the-democratic-party-is-out-of-touch-with-the-country/?utm_term=.1ddec8123cd5
Two-thirds of Americans think that the Democratic Party is out of touch with the countrySen. Bernie Sanders, center, listens as Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton speaks during the final day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on July 28, 2016. (Tannen Maury/EPA)You might not be surprised if I were to tell you that a majority of Americans think that President Trump is out of touch with the concerns of most people in the United States today. Sure, he won the election, but a plurality of voters opposed him, and a new Washington Post-ABC News poll shows that he hasn’t expanded his base of support significantly since then. You certainly wouldn’t be surprised to learn that there’s a broad partisan split on the question, as there is on nearly everything in politics these days.Only 1 in 10 of those who voted for Trump in November think he’s out of touch — but 90 percent of Hillary Clinton voters do. Partisan views are slightly more moderate, with 20 percent of Republicans and 87 percent of Democrats holding that position.When it comes to the Republican Party, the numbers are a bit worse. Sixty-two percent of Americans, and 30 percent of Republicans themselves, think that the GOP is out of touch with the concerns of most people in the United States.But none of this means that Democrats are seen as echoing the concerns of the common man. In fact, the Democratic Party is viewed as more out of touch than either Trump or the party’s political opponents. Two-thirds of Americans think the Democrats are out of touch — including nearly half of Democrats themselves.It’s worth highlighting that last point. While the political opposition generally views Trump or either party as about equally out of touch — with about 80 to 90 percent saying so — the Democratic Party is viewed as far more out of touch by Democrats than Trump or the GOP are by Republicans.Last week, we noted that Trump’s party is seen as more divided than the opposition, according to data from the Pew Research Center. Sixty-eight percent of Americans think the Republican Party is more divided than united, including 57 percent of Republicans. Most Democrats, by contrast, say their party is united.How does that comport with the findings from the Post-ABC poll? It’s tricky to determine, certainly, but one way may be that a large chunk of Democrats feel that their party is united in a vision … that’s at odds with the concerns of the American public. That would certainly align with the main tension in the party, between the vision of supporters of Bernie Sanders and that of Clinton backers — which was made manifest during last year’s Democratic primary.Some portion of this, too, is probably a function of Clinton’s loss in November (as is the shift in how people say they would have changed their vote). But it’s clear that the Democratic Party is cognizant, to some extent, of the discontent at the grass roots. When Tom Perez, the newly elected leader of the party, headed out on a listening tour this month, he brought along a special guest: Sanders.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/23/trump-visits-a-trump-branded-property-for-the-12th-weekend-in-a-row/?utm_term=.59d6b38d0672
Trump visits a Trump-branded property for the 12th weekend in a rowSince his first trip to Mar-a-Lago in early February, the longest stretch Donald Trump has gone without visiting one of the properties that is part of his private business empire has been six days. From March 27 to April 1, he didn’t spend time at Mar-a-Lago or at the Trump International Golf Club in Florida or at Trump National in Virginia or at his hotel down the street from the White House.Of the 94 days he has been president, he has spent all or part of his time at Trump-branded properties on 33 of them, or an average of once every 2.8 days.He has visited one of his private properties on at least one day during each of the past 12 weekends. On Saturday, he had dinner at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, his second such visit since being inaugurated and his fourth this year.A new poll from The Washington Post and our partners at ABC News finds, though, that most Americans don’t see this as a conflict of interest. Forty-three percent of Americans see these trips as a conflict, but a majority, 54 percent, don’t. (The question posed to respondents: “Do you think that Trump spending time at properties he owns represents a conflict of interest because it promotes those properties, or do you think this is not a conflict because he has the right to go where he wants?”)There’s a broad split by party and by 2016 vote choice, as you might expect. Half of those who voted third party say it’s a conflict, as do 72 percent of those who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton. But among Republicans and Trump voters, fewer than 1 in 10 see it as a conflict. Importantly, among independents — a group that has been more critical of Trump than of other recent new presidents — fewer than half express concern.There hasn’t been any indication that Trump is particularly concerned about questions over the amount of time he spends at his private business properties. This poll suggests that, politically at least, that indifference is warranted.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/ryan-promises-to-keep-government-open--and-makes-no-promises-on-health-care/2017/04/22/2f9aeaea-2769-11e7-b503-9d616bd5a305_story.html?utm_term=.fcc1273b6703
Ryan promises to keep government open — and makes no promises on health careHouse leaders told GOP lawmakers Saturday that they plan to devote their energy in the coming week to keeping the federal government open, conspicuously avoiding an immediate commitment to take up health care despite pledges to do so by conservatives and the White House.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), speaking on a conference call with GOP members Saturday afternoon, offered no specific plan on how or when lawmakers might see details of a new proposal to revise the Affordable Care Act, which White House officials suggested might receive a vote by Wednesday.Ryan also made clear that his top priority was to pass a stopgap spending bill to keep government open past April 28, an objective that requires Democratic support. “Wherever we land will be a product the president can and will support.” Ryan said, according to a senior GOP aide on the call.Less clear was whether even a narrow focus on spending would allow Republicans to avoid a showdown with President Trump, whose top aides have in recent days that any spending bill must include funding for a border wall. Such a demand would almost certainly prompt Democrats, whose support is needed to pass the budget bill in the Senate, to vote no.Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said leaders in Congress could reach a spending agreement, but only if the White House stays out of the negotiations.“I want to come up with an agreement,” Schumer said Tuesday on a conference call with reporters. “Our Republican colleagues know that since they control, you know, the House, the Senate and the White House, that a shutdown would fall on their shoulders, and they don’t want it.”On the flip side, there was no guarantee that Trump would sign a spending plan without funding for the wall, several aides said.The Ryan call comes as GOP leaders find themselves trapped between proving that they can complete basic tasks of governing such as funding the government, while also meeting the demands of Trump, who is looking for a legislative win ahead of his 100th day in office next Saturday.Trump and his top aides have been calling on Congress to take dramatic action in the coming week: vote on health care, take up tax reform and demand that Democrats agree to a stopgap spending measure that includes funding for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.Ryan’s comments suggested that he and other House Republicans are pushing back on that pressure. He said, for instance, that the House will vote on a health-care bill when Republicans are sure they have the support to pass it, according to several GOP aides on the call — suggesting that he does not believe that to be the case currently, despite renewed negotiations between House conservatives, moderates and the White House.[@PKCapitol: History tells us that Republicans are taking on too much this week — and it isn’t likely to end well]The direction of the border wall fight was less certain. Ryan and other Republican leaders have suggested that it is more important to protect a spending deal with Democrats, who have vowed to oppose spending on the wall. The speaker assured members on the call that the spending talks were still promising and ongoing, but close Trump aides continued to insist in public that the spending bill should include money for the wall.“I think it goes without saying that the president has been pretty straightforward about his desire and the need for a border wall,” Homeland Security Secretary John F. Kelly said in an interview with CNN’s Jake Tapper scheduled to run Sunday morning. “So I would suspect, he’ll do the right thing for sure, but I would suspect he will be insistent on the funding.”The comment is likely to further threaten bipartisan budget talks, which were jostled after Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, was the first suggested that Trump would demand border wall funding in the upcoming spending bill.“This president should be allowed to have his highest priorities funded even though the Democrats rightly have a seat at the table because of the Senate rules,” Mulvaney said Friday in an interview with Bloomberg Live. “You cannot expect a president who just won election to give up very easily on his highest priority.”Mulvaney repeated his expectation that the spending talks will include border spending at several events throughout the week, causing a flurry of confusion among congressional aides who say the spending bill must remain free of major controversies if it is to pass.Aides on the Hill and inside the White House, who spoke candidly on condition of anonymity, said they believe Trump sees a demand for wall money as the best way to prove that his most controversial proposals can be fulfilled.The border wall confusion was one of many instances in recent weeks where aides, who spoke candidly on condition of anonymity, said they were receiving mixed messages from the White House. Public statements from the White House have often contradicted private discussions on the spending bill and other issues, the aides said, leaving some to question who in the administration represents Trump’s final position.Ryan attempted to calm the disorder Saturday by telling members that spending talks were still ongoing and promising. Ryan has vowed for weeks that there will be no government shutdown, and many Republicans and Democrats have said in recent days that negotiations are proceeding apace.At the same time, Trump has publicly downplayed the significance of achieving a victory in the coming week. He dismissed the symbolism of the 100-day mark — despite his repeated promises on the campaign trail that he would meet many of his goals by that date.Trump also began walking back the health-care promise after signs emerged that GOP leaders were not prepared to take it up because of the risk that it would anger Democrats.“We’ll see what happens,” Trump said on Friday. “No particular rush, but we’ll see what happens.”Then, on Saturday, Trump added to the confusion with a promise to release details of a tax overhaul next week.“Big TAX REFORM AND TAX REDUCTION will be announced next Wednesday,” he tweeted.[‘Big announcement’ on tax reform unlikely to reveal details, White House official says]The bipartisan budget talks were seen as a rare bright spot in an otherwise acrimonious relationship between Republicans and Democrats in Washington. One particular area of agreement was not to include border-protection funds in the stopgap budget, which, it was agreed, should be debated separately, after government is kept open.The demand for border funding, as well as the push for a vote on health care, came as a surprise to Democrats, who have been working for more than a month with GOP leaders to craft a bipartisan spending bill that would keep the government open through the end of the fiscal year on September 30.“Floating the possibility that the House could vote on this amended health care bill next week is irresponsible when the government could shut down on April 29,” said Joseph D. Crowley (D-N.Y.), chairman of the House Democratic Conference. “The focus must be on keeping the government funded — the most basic legislative responsibility we have.”On his call, Ryan encouraged members to continue discussing ideas, but he did not open the conversation to questions, leaving members to wait until Wednesday morning before they can weigh in on spending or health care.Some conservatives had hoped Ryan would use the call to reveal details of a revised health-care plan. Members of the far-right House Freedom Caucus spent the two-week Easter recess working with House GOP moderates, the White House and Ryan’s staff on changes to the health-care bill. Conservatives said Friday that the legislation was nearing completion, but no details have been released.Damian Paletta contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/virginia-politics/dark-money-vs-corporate-cash-democratic-rivals-clash-over-funding/2017/04/21/cc91253c-25d7-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.99c5d2470738
‘Dark money’ vs. corporate cash: Virginia Democratic rivals clash over fundingVirginia gubernatorial candidate Tom Perriello (D). (Linda Davidson/The Washington Post)By Gregory S. Schneider   By Gregory S. Schneider        April 22     Follow @SchneiderGRICHMOND —  One candidate takes money from an international activist group that doesn’t disclose the names of the overwhelming majority of its donors. The other takes money from Virginia’s biggest utility, which is also the top lobbyist in the state.As Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam and former congressman Tom Perriello battle for the Democratic nomination for governor, their fundraising is emerging as an issue that defines them as much as their slim differences on policy.Northam has called on Perriello to renounce “dark money,” just days after Perriello disclosed $230,000 in contributions from an international activist group called Avaaz, which Perriello helped found a decade ago.[Perriello’s governor’s bid boosted by several big donors]As a 501(c)(4) charity, Avaaz is not required to disclose its individual donors, which it says come from among nearly 45 million members in 194 countries.Virginia Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam (D), who is running for governor. (Matt McClain/The Washington Post)The organization says it accepts no money from governments or corporations and itemizes any donations greater than $5,000 on its tax filing; in 2016, 26 such donations were reported, representing 0.7 percent of Avaaz’s total revenue.Perriello co-founded Avaaz with two colleagues who had helped him start an earlier nonprofit called Res Publica, which was aimed at promoting international justice on behalf of the religious left, as Perriello told the National Catholic Reporter in 2004. One of those colleagues, Ricken Patel, a Canadian, is now Avaaz’s executive director. The organization was formed in collaboration with MoveOn.org, the Democratic online activist group that has received funding from billionaire George Soros — who also is a major Perriello campaign contributor.Avaaz says it sets priorities for its lobbying campaigns and protest events through online membership polls. Among the top causes in 2016 were protecting sea life, supporting the Paris climate agreement and breaking the grip of big agribusiness companies such as Monsanto.Although the organization spent some $400,000 to oppose President Trump’s election campaign last year, according to OpenSecrets.org, its website doesn’t reflect much participation in elections. The donation to Perriello’s campaign was the first of its kind, Avaaz spokesman Will Davies said: “The first time Avaaz has ever donated to a political campaign in the U.S.”Because the organization is not required to disclose individual donors, it is hard to tell whether the Avaaz money came from foreign sources, which would violate federal election law.Emma Ruby-Sachs, the deputy director of New York-based Avaaz, said the big Perriello donation “is actually hundreds of small online donations from hundreds of Americans who are members of Avaaz that were transferred in one lump sum.”The organization has a system to ensure the money is coming from U.S. donors, similar to methods used by other online fundraising groups such as ActBlue, Ruby-Sachs said.Ruby-Sachs said 71 percent of Avaaz members in the United States voted in an online poll to support Perriello’s campaign.The Perriello campaign listed a $200,000 Avaaz donation on Jan. 5, the same day the former congressman stunned Virginia’s political establishment by announcing that he would compete against Northam for the nomination.That raised questions about how Avaaz could have polled its members in time. But the organization and campaign said Friday that the listed date was incorrect and that the Avaaz money arrived on Jan. 17 and Jan. 29. A Perriello spokesman said the campaign would correct the filing.The seed money from Avaaz was among several large donations included last week in Perriello’s first campaign finance disclosure, which showed that he outraised Northam in the first three months of the year but has less cash on hand.Northam was prohibited by state law from fundraising for the 46 days the General Assembly was in session.Perriello’s biggest donation was $500,000 in kickoff money from Sonjia Smith, a Democratic contributor from his home town of Charlottesville.Overall, however, Perriello drew far more from out-of-state sources than Northam — 57 percent for Perriello compared with 11 percent for Northam — according to the nonpartisan Virginia Public Access Project (VPAP).Northam has been quick to emphasize the differences in the two candidates’ donor bases. After Smith published an essay in the Roanoke Times titled “I contributed $500,000 to Tom Perriello. Here’s why,” the Northam campaign jabbed back with a piece titled “I contributed $50 to Ralph Northam — here’s why,” highlighting seven of his grass-roots donors.Perriello’s campaign declined to comment specifically on the Avaaz contributions. Instead, a spokesman highlighted money that Northam has received from the state’s biggest utility — Dominion Power — and from the health insurer Anthem.“Tom’s largest contributions came from people long familiar with his advocacy work on progressive causes, not from individuals or corporations with business interests before the state like Dominion or Anthem,” Perriello spokesman Ian Sams said. “So when it comes to money influencing politics, we’ll let Virginians decide which of these sources of contributions are more troubling.”Northam reported $5,000 from Dominion chief executive Thomas F. Farrell II in the first quarter of this year and took more than $20,000 from the corporation in 2016, according to VPAP.This comes at a time when Dominion’s huge influence in Richmond is under scrutiny. More than 60 Democratic candidates in upcoming House of Delegates races have signed a pledge refusing to take money from Dominion, and Perriello has rejected the utility’s money as well.Northam’s campaign emphasized that 92 percent of his contributions were $100 or less and said he is not influenced by big money.“The only influence on Ralph Northam’s vote is what’s in the best interest of Virginians,” campaign spokesman David Turner said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/though-shovels-are-ready-trump-officials-delay-grant-for-caltrain-upgrade/2017/04/22/013ee458-160c-11e7-ada0-1489b735b3a3_story.html?utm_term=.6098b2b4f9fc
Though shovels are ready, Trump officials delay grant for Caltrain upgradeSAN JOSE —  The railway shuttles 65,000 people a day between San Francisco and San Jose, its cars crammed with Silicon Valley workers tapping on sleek laptops and hoisting bikes into designated cars. But the signs of aging are unmistakable — 1980s control panels devoid of digital technology, the dusting of sea-green foam that has escaped from the seat cushions and settled on the floor.All of that was supposed to change with the launch of a $2 billion upgrade, underwritten in part by a $647 million grant from the Federal Transit Administration approved days before President Barack Obama left office. But then the Trump administration arrived, and within a month the FTA informed Caltrain that it was “deferring a decision.”The delay has infuriated California officials, who had hoped the long-awaited project would mesh nicely with President Trump’s call for fresh spending on the nation’s aging infrastructure. But in this era of distrust and polarization, an otherwise popular initiative has become a GOP target, seen as a pet project of the former president.The move to shelve the grant is reverberating far beyond the Golden State, alarming officials in cities across the nation. The White House wants to slice nearly $1 billion from the transportation budget this year, with the cuts aimed primarily at urban transit projects such as the Purple Line in Maryland’s Montgomery and Prince George’s counties.More cuts may be in store: Trump’s budget request for fiscal 2018 ignores two major New York City projects: an extension of the Second Avenue subway line and a new train tunnel under the Hudson River. In a note to Congress last month, the White House budget office wrote that when it comes to improvements to Caltrain and the D.C. Metro system, “localities should fund these localized projects.”How Trump is rolling back Obama’s legacy  View GraphicHow Trump is rolling back Obama’s legacy[Trump’s budget cuts put the Purple Line’s development at risk]Christopher Leinberger, chair of George Washington University’s Center for Real Estate and Urban Analysis, said the cuts suggest Trump is “playing to the base,” because he got much less support in urban areas than in “drivable suburban locations.”“This is about pure politics,” Leinberger said.Last month, the American Public Transportation Association sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao calling the Caltrain delay “concerning.” In more than two decades, the association wrote, “no project has failed to secure final signature after successfully meeting evaluation criteria.”Transportation officials were noncommittal, saying the project would be considered along with other priorities for fiscal 2018.For Caltrain general manager and chief executive Jim Hartnett, whose company started planning for the upgrade in the late 1990s, the delay is disheartening. The project, which would finance a switch from diesel engines to high-performance electric commuter rail trains, has already received $73 million in federal appropriations but cannot tap the cash without the Transportation Department’s approval.“We are more than shovel-ready,” Hartnett said. “Our shovel is in the ground and ready to turn.”At Caltrain’s San Jose Diridon Station last month, company officials pointed out the signs of wear and tear on a railway system that was inaugurated during Abraham Lincoln’s presidency.More than two-thirds of its locomotives date to 1985; more than half of its passenger trains are that old. There is no diagnostic software. “When something goes wrong, we put in a part and hope for the best,” said Caltrain’s director of rail operations, Joe Navarro.A few weeks ago, half of the red-and-silver Caltrain signs started peeling off the side of a passenger car at the South San Francisco stop, prompting a half-hour delay. Doing a “midlife” overhaul, which extends a locomotive or passenger car’s life by an additional decade, costs $2.2 million per locomotive and $1.5 million per car.“We’re the second-oldest railroad west of the Mississippi, and we have advanced that far beyond the steam engine,” Navarro said. “We’re running diesel.”Caltrain first contemplated an electric rail line two decades ago, but the idea has taken on new urgency as Silicon Valley has boomed and ridership has doubled since 2005.Officials approached the FTA about the project in 2001, while also tapping local funding sources, including money approved by Proposition 1A, a 2008 ballot measure intended to connect transit projects to the state’s planned high-speed rail system.This annoyed Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), who chairs a key House Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee. Denham has lobbied Chao to deny the grant because the new Caltrain cars would run slower than 220 mph, the rate that defines high-speed rail. He urged California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) to find a different source of state financing for Caltrain and then reapply for the federal money.“I am supportive of Caltrain and the electrification project, but they have to be funded the right way,” Denham said. “I would expect any new administration to fund what their new transportation policy is going to be and what their priorities are.”Brown, who met with Chao last month to discuss the grant, said of Denham in a phone interview: “That’s called blackmail.”Californians “voted for a bond issue” for high-speed rail “but envisioned other projects” using the cash, the governor said. “To go against it is the rawest, stupidest form of politics.”[White House installs staff at Cabinet agencies to be Trump’s eyes and ears]For the moment, Caltrain has obtained a four-month delay from its contractors in exchange for paying a penalty, meaning it could still proceed with the project if it gets an infusion of federal funds by June 30.The electrification upgrade is expected to generate 4,700 jobs in more than a dozen states, including Utah, where the new trains would be manufactured. Caltrain officials have reached out to more than a dozen members of the House and Senate who represent areas that would benefit from the project.In an interview, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) said the project “would be very beneficial to Utah, no question.”Although it may be challenging to free up the money, Hatch said, “we’re going to do what we can to get that done.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/a-scholar-asks-can-democracy-survive-the-internet/2017/04/22/1915c0e8-2696-11e7-b503-9d616bd5a305_story.html?utm_term=.b162697b568c
A scholar asks, ‘Can democracy survive the Internet?’President Trump’s Twitter feed is seen earlier this month. (J. David Ake/AP)By Dan Balz   By Dan Balz        April 22     Follow @danbalzIn more innocent times, the rise of the Internet was seen by many people as a boon to democracy. Disruptive, yes, but the Web broadened the flow of information, introduced new voices into the political debates, empowered citizens and even provided a powerful fundraising tool for some lesser-known candidates such as Barack Obama and Bernie Sanders.Now, in what are clearly less innocent times, the Internet is viewed as a far less benign force. It can be a haven for spreading fake news and rewarding the harshest and most divisive of political rhetoric. It is a medium, for all its benefits, that has dark corners populated by anonymous actors (some not even real people) whose influence appears to be growing but not easily measured.Nathaniel Persily, a law professor at Stanford University, is among the many — academics, political practitioners, journalists, law enforcement officials and others — who are attempting to understand better the consequences of conducting campaigns and governance here and around the world in the Internet age. He has written about this in a forthcoming issue of the Journal of Democracy in an article with a title that sums up his concerns: “Can Democracy Survive the Internet?”The provocative title isn’t simply the result of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, though that is obviously a front-and-center issue. “I think it’s the shiny object that everyone understandably pays attention to right now, but the problem is bigger than that,” Persily said during an interview a few days ago.The FBI and congressional committees are investigating if anyone associated with President Trump’s campaign was in collusion with the Russians, and how future campaigns can be protected from such meddling. But as Persily rightly notes, foreign attempts to interfere with what should be a sovereign enterprise, such as a presidential election, are only one factor to be examined.Even without the Russians, the campaign of 2016 highlighted the degree to which elections are carried out on terrain far different from when television and traditional print organizations were the dominant media. Persily argues that the 2016 campaign broke down previously established rules and distinctions “between insiders and outsiders, earned media and advertising, media and non-media, legacy media and new media, news and entertainment and even foreign and domestic sources of campaign communication.”Candidate Trump understood the new landscape far better than did Hillary Clinton, and that might be one reason he sits in the Oval Office today. Clinton played by old rules; Trump did not. He recognized the potential rewards of exploiting what the Internet offered, and he conducted his campaign through unconventional means.“That’s what Donald Trump realized that a lot of us didn’t,” Persily said. “That it was more important to swamp the communication environment than it was to advocate for a particular belief or fight for the truth of a particular story,” Persily said.In his article, Persily notes that the Internet reacted to the Trump campaign “like an ecosystem welcoming a new and foreign species. His candidacy triggered new strategies and promoted established Internet forces. Some of these (such as the ‘alt-right’) were moved by ideological affinity, while others sought to profit financially or to further a geopolitical agenda. Those who worry about the implications of the 2016 campaign are left to wonder whether it illustrates the vulnerabilities of democracy in the Internet age, especially when it comes to the integrity of the information voters will access as they choose between candidates.”The rise and power of the Internet has accelerated the decline of institutions that once provided a mediating force in campaigns. Neither the legacy media nor the established political parties exercise the power they once had as referees, particularly in helping to sort out the integrity of information.Beyond that, legacy media that once helped set the agenda for political conversation now often take their cues from new media. Twitter traffic often determines what cable television pundits will spend their day talking about, yet what makes something a trending topic can sometimes be determined by unknown but not disinterested forces.Trump, as a tweeting president, continues to demonstrate Twitter’s power to shape the day on a regular basis. Persily quotes a study by a group of scholars that said, “Retweets of Trump’s posts are a significant predictor of news stories and blog posts.” Meanwhile, the volume of Trump’s tweets was “a negative predictor of concurrent news coverage . . . which may imply that he unleashes ‘tweetstorms’ when his coverage is low.”Some of the problems identified are not necessarily new. There were false or misleading stories in the media before the Internet existed, as the era of “yellow journalism” reminds us. Anonymous political communication existed long before the Internet.The Internet, however, involves characteristics that heighten the disruptive and damaging influences on political campaigns. One, Persily said, is the velocity of information, the speed with which news, including fake news, moves and expands and is absorbed. Viral communication can create dysfunction in campaigns and within democracies.Another factor is the pervasiveness of anonymous communication, clearly greater and more odious today. Anonymity facilitates a coarsening of speech on the Internet. It has become more and more difficult to determine the sources of such information, including whether these communications are produced by real people or by automated programs known as “bots.”“During the 2016 campaign,” Persily writes, “the prevalence of bots in spreading propaganda and fake news appears to have reached new heights. One study found that between 16 September and 21 October 2016, bots produced about a fifth of all tweets related to the upcoming election. Across all three presidential debates, pro-Trump twitter bots generated about four times as many tweets as pro-Clinton bots. During the final debate in particular, that figure rose to seven times as many.”Persily also notes that the fear of dark money and “shady outsiders” running television commercials “seems quaint when compared to networks of thousands of bots of uncertain geographic origin creating automated messages designed to malign candidates and misinform voters.”Yet there is still much that isn’t known about all this. It isn’t clear the degree to which online hate speech increased during or after the campaign. Nor is it clear whether fake news had a significant impact on the campaign and voters’ behavior, though the fog created by such stories can add to the general distrust of the media among many voters. Still, Persily cautioned, “Because we can’t prove it yet doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be concerned about it.”When asked how worrisome all this is, Persily said, “I’m extremely concerned.” He was quick to say he did not believe government should or even could regulate this new environment. But, he said, “We need to come to grips with how the new communication environment affects people’s political beliefs, the information they receive and then the choices that they make.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/history-tells-us-that-republicans-are-taking-on-too-much-this-week--and-that-it-isnt-likely-to-end-well/2017/04/22/b7bf2222-26d5-11e7-b503-9d616bd5a305_story.html?utm_term=.b791bb7eb5c5
History tells us that Republicans are taking on too much this week — and that it isn’t likely to end wellPresident Trump prepares to sign an executive orrder on government regulations in Washington on Friday. (Ricky Carioti/The Washington Post)By Paul Kane   By Paul Kane        April 22     Follow @pkcapitolIt seems like forever and a day since Congress could walk and chew gum at the same time.That’s a lesson President Trump and his advisers are struggling to grasp, even those he plucked from Capitol Hill to occupy key posts.In the week ahead, lawmakers already face an immediate Friday deadline of keeping federal agencies funded through the remainder of the year. Yet Trump’s advisers continue to toss into the mix big items they would like to see accomplished, giving the appearance of a frenzied search for wins ahead of Saturday’s symbolically important 100th day of the new presidency.Some Trump advisers have pushed for a vote this week on health-care legislation, even though there are no signs that ongoing talks between moderate and conservative Republicans have produced a breakthrough.Then, seemingly out of nowhere, Trump declared in an interview Friday with the Associated Press that on Wednesday he would unveil his administration’s proposal for a massive overhaul of the tax code. It would result, he said, in the biggest “tax cut ever,” despite ongoing gridlock in Congress over competing tax proposals — in a process that started more than six years ago.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)[The White House reveals what next week’s ‘big announcement’ on taxes will look like]Any one of these items would be a big enough lift in an era when Congress regularly struggles with the most basic of tasks. Mix them all together over a couple days, and it’s the legislative equivalent of trying to pull the pin on three grenades at once. If you’re not careful, all three might blow up in your face.The model of strategic chaos — creating many different targets and never taking on much bloodshed — worked well in the campaign, particularly in a sprawling GOP primary when Trump faced 15 or more opponents.But in governance, it doesn’t work. Congress needs focus, not flurry.The volatility has Democrats shaking their heads; they know full well thanks to experiences from when they last controlled Congress and the White House that trying to do too many things all at once is perilous.“Floating the possibility that the House could vote on this amended health-care bill next week is irresponsible when the government could shut down on April 29,” Rep. Joseph Crowley (N.Y.), a member of House Democratic leadership, said in a statement. “The focus must be on keeping the government funded — the most basic legislative responsibility we have.”There’s a good chance the week ahead becomes a lot of sound and fury but not much productivity. The talk of legislation to revise the 2010 Affordable Care Act could fade as negotiations continue well into the spring, and no one is sure what Trump might spell out on his tax proposals.Also, given the time constraints, most insiders expect Congress to do what it does best in times of crisis: buy more time, specifically by approving a stopgap bill to keep the federal government funded at current levels for an additional week or two to hammer out full spending levels for the rest of 2017.Such a low-octane finish to a week that begins with such promise would be the latest example of how difficult it is to try to pull off more than one big thing at a time.In 2009, after they passed a massive stimulus bill, congressional Democrats began driving toward approving the ACA, but House Democrats also tried to pass a bill to rein in climate change, including a very complicated system for trading carbon credits.The same panel tasked with crafting most of the health law, the Energy and Commerce Committee, pushed through the cap-and-trade legislation, passing it in June 2009. The full House passed the climate bill after a bitter fight between moderate and liberal Democrats, but the Senate never took up the legislation.The Energy and Commerce Committee finally moved on to health care but did not finish until the last day of the summer session. The full House headed into the fateful August 2009 recess, when Democrats faced angry constituents, creating more delays for many more months in passing the ACA.The Senate had its own version of juggling too many issues. In early 2013, Democrats pushed legislation almost simultaneously for strict background checks on gun purchases and an overhaul of immigration laws. Both proposals went through the Judiciary Committee, and both were politically sensitive for the half-dozen or so Democrats from conservative states.Eventually, Democrats pulled the gun bill and focused on immigration. They passed it in June 2013, only to see it never considered in the House.Some Democrats believe, in retrospect, that a narrower focus would have been the better path to follow.Now, Republicans face battles on several fronts. The initial try at repealing the ACA blew up a month ago. Partly at the urging of Vice President Pence, the conservative House Freedom Caucus and the moderate Tuesday Group have resumed talks about salvaging that effort. House GOP leaders appear tepid about the effort — and less involved than during the first go-round.Traveling in London last week, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) told reporters that they were “negotiating sort of finishing touches” on the legislation and that it was going to “take us a little time” to finish up.Pence is a trusted former House member, but he was never known as a dealmaker.In recent days, Mick Mulvaney, the former House member who is now Trump’s budget director, has taken a high profile in government funding talks. Democrats are angry at his recent demands for funding to meet Trump’s promise of building a wall along the Mexican border, and the spat has created enough tension that Democrats feel that they have leverage in the talks.[White House could provoke a spending showdown over funding for border wall]If past is prologue, House leaders face an uphill task getting a majority of votes from their side of the aisle for a government funding bill, and Senate Democrats have already guaranteed they will filibuster any spending bill with funding for the wall.That sets up what many consider an inevitable scenario in which Ryan will have to make a push for the more conservative position just to show his right flank that he’s fighting for them, leading to eventual failure and a bipartisan compromise putting off any threat of a government shutdown until the fall.All of that is hard enough — with or without other demands to overhaul the health-care industry and the entire tax code.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/democrats-partner-with-political-newcomers-hoping-to-create-anti-trump-wave-in-2018-midterms/2017/04/21/91514ec8-2502-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.05f7daf62af7
Democrats partner with political newcomers aiming to create anti-Trump wave in 2018 midtermsDemocratic candidate Jon Ossoff was the top vote-getter last Tuesday in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District in a special election to replace Tom Price, who is now the secretary of health and human services. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)By Ed O'Keefe  and Mike DeBonis   By Ed O'Keefe  and Mike DeBonis        April 21     Follow @edatpost  Follow @mikedebonisA wave of first-time candidates eager to fight President Trump and his young administration plan to challenge House Republican incumbents, giving Democratic Party leaders hope that they can capi­tal­ize on the anger and intensity at grass-roots protests and town hall meetings across the country this year.At least 15 declared candidates or contenders on the verge of announcing have emerged in districts that Democrats must win to take back the House, including in several districts where the party did not seriously compete in 2014 or 2016, according to party officials.Democrats need 24 new seats to retake control of the House — a tall order that no party leader publicly says is possible, at least not yet.Still, less than 100 days into Trump’s presidency, the early interest gives Democrats a chance to compete more aggressively in districts where they haven’t fielded challengers in recent cycles — and perhaps chip away at the GOP’s seven-year control of the House.“This is unprecedented,” said Stephanie Schriock, president of Emily’s List, the progressive organization that trains and recruits women to run for political office. During the 2016 cycle, her group spoke with about 900 women interested in running for school board, state legislature or Congress. This year, they’ve heard from more than 11,000 women in all 50 states — with a few dozen seriously considering House races, she said.(Alice Li/The Washington Post)Democratic strategists are trying to take advantage of the groundswell of engagement. They have moved initial staff to key districts they are targeting, including several in California, Virginia and Texas.In a bid to pick up as many as five more seats from Republican incumbents in California, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has moved its eight-member western regional political team to offices in Irvine, Calif. — the first time the team has been permanently stationed outside of Washington since 2000. The goal is to defeat Reps. Mimi Walters, Edward R. Royce, Dana Rohrabacher, Steve Knight and Darrell Issa, all of whom won reelection last year in districts that Hillary Clinton won.And they are actively recruiting candidates in the most competitive districts. Staff at the DCCC — responsible for electing more Democrats to the House — say they’ve spoken with more than 300 potential candidates in 70 districts nationwide, a figure that they believe will allow the party to compete in several long-held Republican districts like the one in Georgia where the first round of a special election this week earned outsized national attention.Congressional Republicans cautioned that the Democrats’ activity includes no evidence of an advantage in next year’s midterm elections. They noted that Democrats have to focus more on recruiting because they control less of the map and need to make gains. And they caution that early recruits might not line up with the demands of Democratic voters.Democrats “are getting a bit out front of themselves in not recognizing that their candidates are going to have difficulty getting through primaries,” said Jesse Hunt, national press secretary for the National Republican Congressional Committee. “Their base is demanding all-out destruction and candidates with rigid ideology whose sole purpose is to oppose Donald Trump and the Republican agenda. That’s going to run up against some of what Washington Democrats want to do.”NRCC officials said they have spoken with more than 100 potential candidates about challenging Democrats, especially in a handful of Midwestern districts that could become vacant as Democratic incumbents retire or seek higher office. And so far, Republicans retain a financial advantage in this election cycle despite Democrats’ apparent enthusiasm advantage: While the DCCC raised $31 million in the first quarter — including 120,000 online donations from first-time givers — the House GOP’s campaign arm raised $36 million.Liberal activists and Democratic organizers said the key ingredient this year is the grass-roots urgency, but the hope is to combine that with organizing heft.Va. State Sen. Jennifer Wexton is seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) in the 2018 mid-term elections. (WilliamMoree.com/Courtesy of the Jennifer Wexton campaign)In the fierce battleground of Northern Virginia, Democratic State Sen. Jennifer Wexton is a prime example. A former prosecutor, Wexton was wooed by Democrats in 2016 to challenge Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), but she declined — and the two-term lawmaker prevailed in one of the most expensive and competitive House races last year.On Friday, the nonpartisan Cook Political Report declared Comstock’s seat a “toss up” after Wexton decided to jump in — a decision that resulted partly from conversations with fellow Democrats and partly from attending the Women’s March on Washington and other protests that opened her eyes to the extent of the outrage spurred by Trump’s election.“I’ve never seen anything like that it my life, it was amazing and very inspiring,” Wexton said. “I went to Dulles Airport during the Muslim ban and same thing there. All the people who had come out to protest in solidarity with immigrants and the volunteer attorneys who were there. I mean that was amazing.”A scientist in California, military veterans in Colorado and Virginia, Latino activists in Florida and Texas ,and women business executives in several states are making similar decisions.Cristobal Alex, president of the Latino Victory Fund, which trains Latino Democratic candidates up and down the ballot, said that at this same point two years ago, the group had held “just a handful” of conversations with potential congressional candidates. This year, he’s talked to 12 potential candidates about challenging Republican congressmen in Texas, Florida and Virginia.Thanks to his anti-immigrant rhetoric and plans to build a border wall, “Donald Trump is the best Latino political organizer in history,” Alex said.“I’ve never seen anything like it” added physicist Rush Holt, chief executive of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a former Democratic congressman from New Jersey. Holt said he used to get one or two inquiries a year from fellow scientists interested in entering politics. But in the past five months, more than a dozen people have reached out.“There’s a widespread and deep concern that there is an eroding appreciation of science,” Holt said. “That didn’t start in November, but now it’s reached a crescendo.”The landscape is different in the Senate.Republicans have a distinct advantage in 2018, when 25 Democrats will be defending Senate seats, including 10 in states that Trump won last year. But Republicans are struggling to find candidates to challenge Democrats next year. Several prominent, well-funded contenders in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Montana, Indiana and elsewhere have declined to launch Senate campaigns. Democrats, hoping to win Senate races in Arizona and Nevada, also have yet to find recruits.The National Republican Senatorial Committee declined to comment on its recruiting plan. But one national GOP strategist, who like many contacted declined to be named publicly for fear of retribution from the White House or congressional leaders, said that concerns with Trump’s sagging popularity are a leading factor for wary Republican candidates.“Presumably, if you’re running as a Republican in 2018, you’re running to implement his agenda,” said the operative. “There are a lot of Republicans who are uneasy with big elements of Trump’s agenda and you’re seeing that reflected in challenges with candidate recruitment.”In the House, the recent focus by Democrats on Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, an Atlanta-area seat until recently held by Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, is part of a plan to more actively support candidates in Republican-held districts that last year voted for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and had never voted to elect former president Barack Obama.Beginning in February, the DCCC began hiring field staffers in 20 districts — a mix of perennial swing districts in Florida, Colorado, Iowa, New York and Pennsylvania, plus GOP-held districts that voted for Clinton in California, Texas and Kansas. While staffers are usually hired or deployed in these areas, the party started doing it two weeks after Trump’s inauguration in response to the grass-roots-level organizing that sparked large marches, airport protests and rowdy town hall meetings.Several of these fresh Democratic recruits will face battle-tested, well-funded GOP incumbents who can rely on national Republicans or well-funded super PACs for financial support. Such backing has helped suppress support for previous Democratic opponents, who may have earned early buzz and support but fizzled closer to Election Day.Potential recruits say that the DCCC is cautioning potential candidates that competing in dozens of new Republican-friendly districts will be expensive and could stretch resources.“They were realistic. They’re not selling a false bill of goods,” said Miguel Solis, a Dallas school board member who had considered running against Rep. Pete Sessions (R-Tex.), but declined because of family commitments. He said he had nearly a dozen conversations with senior Democratic lawmakers about the race.“The numbers suggest it can be done, but it’s going to take a significant coalition of independents, moderate Republicans and a significant turnout of Democrats to win it,” Solis said.In some cases, it also requires getting past primaries in expensive media markets. At least two other Democrats who are expected to run against Sessions, a former NFL player and former State Department official, will face just that.That isn’t stopping many Democrats from jumping in. In Colorado, the DCCC is working with Jason Crow, an attorney and former Army Ranger who has decided to challenge Rep. Mike Coffman, a perennial Democratic target. Crow said the decision was clear for him.“If we’re not okay with the state of affairs in D.C., and if we’re not okay with the direction of our country,” he said, “we’re not going to fix it by electing the same kind of people with the same way of thinking than we’ve had in the past.”In addition to Crow, several military veterans are planning to run as Democrats. In the San Diego area, Josh Butner, a former Navy SEAL, is challenging Rep. Duncan D. Hunter (R), who is a Marine. In central Virginia, former Marine Roger Dean Huffstetler is running against Rep. Thomas Garrett (R).
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/21/the-trump-administration-continues-to-have-a-warped-view-of-crime-in-americas-big-cities/?utm_term=.7ba8cc35996c
The Trump administration continues to have a warped view of crime in America’s big citiesNew York City police officers from the K-9 Unit during an active-shooter drill in 2015 in New York City. (Michael Graae/Getty Images)Donald Trump’s presidency has always been predicated on a shaky link between undocumented immigrants and crime. From the first minutes of his campaign announcement through his speech accepting the Republican nomination last summer, Trump consistently argued that crime in the United States — which he has also shakily claimed is surging — is in some large part a function of immigrants who are in the country illegally. There’s no strong evidence that there’s a link between immigrants and crime beyond a number of salacious anecdotes. But campaign rhetoric is often imperfectly tethered to reality, particularly when offered by Trump.On Friday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions offered the administration’s latest attempt to link crime to undocumented immigrants. In a letter sent to nine jurisdictions — the state of California, Chicago, Las Vegas, Miami, Milwaukee, New Orleans, New York City and Philadelphia — the Justice Department threatened to end federal funding if the locales continue to follow “sanctuary city” policies, laws that restrict how and when federal immigration officials are informed about contact with undocumented immigrants.The Justice Department’s announcement reads, in part:[M]any of these jurisdictions are also crumbling under the weight of illegal immigration and violent crime. The number of murders in Chicago has skyrocketed, rising more than 50 percent from the 2015 levels. New York City continues to see gang murder after gang murder, the predictable consequence of the city’s “soft on crime” stance. And just several weeks ago in California’s Bay Area, after a raid captured 11 MS-13 members on charges including murder, extortion and drug trafficking, city officials seemed more concerned with reassuring illegal immigrants that the raid was unrelated to immigration than with warning other MS-13 members that they were next.This is a good example of the point made above: The use of anecdotes to make a case that the data don’t support. New York City still has murders, certainly, and some are gang-related. But the number of murders in New York is far, far lower then in years past — and the murder rate kept falling even as the city abandoned its tough-on-crime, “stop and frisk” policy. Chicago has such a severe problem with homicide that it alone is responsible for much of the increase in murders in America’s large cities. But not many of those murders are linked to illegal immigration; when Trump linked the two, experts readily disagreed. As for the claim that the above-named jurisdictions may be “crumbling,” that will probably come as a surprise to their residents.The more important point is that these nine jurisdictions are not among those with the most severe crime problems in the United States.In terms of number of murders, New York City is often near the top of the list. But, then, it’s the largest city in the country by a wide margin. If you look at the murder rate — the number of killings per every 100,000 people, the picture is different. Here is a comparison of murder rates to population in cities tracked by the FBI. (Figures are for 2015, the last year for which full FBI data are available.)New York is far higher than other places in terms of population — but there are a lot of jurisdictions with higher murder rates. In fact, of the 8,300 jurisdictions for which the FBI collects data, 1,360 have higher murder rates than New York.Considering only violent crime, 1,060 jurisdictions have higher rates than New York.The jurisdictions mentioned by the Justice Department aren’t all the most violent or deadly even among large cities. Below is every jurisdiction of 100,000 people or more, with the Sessions jurisdictions highlighted. (We highlighted most major cities in California, plus Salinas, the city with the highest murder rate in that state.)
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/oversight-committee-jockeying-heats-up-in-wake-of-chaffetz-retirement-announcement/2017/04/21/bab84d1c-26d2-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.856318af99ef
Oversight Committee jockeying heats up in wake of Chaffetz retirement announcementRep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who announced this week he won’t run for office in 2018, has not said publicly when he plans to resign. (Kim Raff/For The Washington Post)By Elise Viebeck  and Paul Kane   By Elise Viebeck  and Paul Kane        April 21     Follow @eliseviebeck  Follow @pkcapitolA rift between conservative and mainstream Republicans is already emerging about who should replace Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) as chairman of the powerful House Oversight and Government Reform Committee when he departs Capitol Hill.Chaffetz, who announced this week he won’t run for office in 2018, has not said publicly when he plans to resign.Republicans believe that he will surrender the gavel in the coming weeks, leading supporters of possible replacements to begin maneuvering for the helm of the House’s chief investigatory panel.A bloc of conservatives is advocating for Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) to receive the chairmanship. Jordan is an outspoken member of the House Freedom Caucus who has clashed repeatedly with GOP leaders.Mainstream Republicans are eyeing Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio), a more moderate voice who has served on the Oversight Committee but is not currently a member.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)Both are thought to be interested in the position, Republican sources said. Jordan and Turner competed for the gavel 2½ years ago, but the House GOP Steering Committee, mostly made up of House leaders and their allies, instead backed Chaffetz for the post.Colleagues see a wild card in Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), the former federal prosecutor and chairman of the House Select Committee on Benghazi. Trusted by both leadership and conservatives, Gowdy has the inside track for Chaffetz’s position, according to two senior Republican aides. But, the aides said, it is unclear whether Gowdy wants such a controversial post under President Trump.The race is expected to move quickly because Chaffetz has indicated he’s already looking for private-sector employment and might soon resign, prompting leadership to believe that he needs to transition out of the powerful committee post for reasons of appearance. There’s speculation the Utah Republican might leave Congress as early as the end of May or in June.“I might depart early,” Chaffetz told Politico this week. “It’s not tomorrow, it’s not next week. If it is, it’s going to be in the months to come.”The early jockeying underscores the desirability of the high-profile post. But the job is also considered less palatable under a Republican administration. Chaffetz was known for his aggressive investigations of the Obama administration but has not sunk his teeth into possible conflicts of interest surrounding President Trump and his sprawling business empire.Requests for comment from Chaffetz, Jordan and Turner were not returned Friday afternoon. Gowdy’s spokeswoman declined to comment on the record.A spokeswoman for Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), AshLee Strong, emailed Friday that Ryan has “full confidence in Chairman Chaffetz.”She pointed to a recent tweet from Ryan saying that he was “thankful” to have served with Chaffetz, a “great defender of liberty and limited government.”The decision about who should replace Chaffetz will be made by the House Republican Steering Committee.Jordan would appear to be an underdog, based on the leaning of the steering panel, especially since, in the time since he lost out to Chaffetz, he has become even more of an antagonist toward leadership. However, there are concerns about the fallout if he is again passed over for the gavel.The chain of seniority on Oversight — which would normally serve as a possible line of succession — does not help in this case.Behind Chaffetz is Rep. John J. Duncan Jr. (R-Tenn.), who is understood to be waiting to claim the gavel at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee once Rep. Bill Shuster’s (R-Pa.) term as chairman ends.After Duncan is Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), who served as Oversight chairman until Chaffetz succeeded him.Jordan ranks fourth after Issa, with Gowdy several positions down the list.One senior Republican aide predicted major fallout for Republican leaders if they make Turner chairman. Freedom Caucus members are not likely to welcome the notion that Jordan was passed over for a moderate Republican who is not even a member of the committee.Gowdy could be a possible compromise choice, though a source close to him seemed to play down the idea, noting he has never sought a chairmanship (despite being chosen as head of the Benghazi panel) and is already on four committees.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/21/at-least-20-members-of-the-house-are-registered-to-vote-outside-their-districts/?utm_term=.8309117ab0c2
At least 20 members of the House are registered to vote outside their districtsJon Ossoff speaks to supporters this week in Atlanta as he runs for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District in a special election to replace now-Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)This article has been updated.While voters in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District were headed to the polls during Tuesday’s special election, President Trump shared a factoid that had just been brought to his attention.“Just learned that Jon Ossoff, who is running for Congress in Georgia,” he tweeted, “doesn’t even live in the district. Republicans, get out and vote!”Trump was correct. Ossoff, a Democrat, copped to living outside the 6th District during a town hall last weekend. He actually lives in the 5th Congressional District because, he says, his girlfriend prefers being able to walk to medical school at Emory University.Ossoff is registered to vote at a home within the circle on that map — close to the 6th District, but outside of it. There’s no legal reason he should have to live in the district he hopes to represent; the Constitution mandates only that members of the House live in the state they are going to represent. That said, it’s generally considered politically advantageous to actually be a resident of the area you hope to represent.If elected, Ossoff wouldn’t be the only member of Congress living in Georgia’s 5th District. There’s also Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), who represents the district. But a review of vote registration records by The Washington Post suggests that Ossoff would be the third member of Congress to make his home in the 5th. According to voter data provided to The Post by the political data firm L2, Rep. David Scott (D-Ga.) is also registered to vote in the district, instead of the 13th District that he represents.In fact, The Post identified 20 members of Congress who are registered to vote outside of the districts they serve. In some cases, it’s clearly a function of redistricting. Four members of the House from southern Florida, for example, live outside of the districts they represent, but that’s likely because the Florida Supreme Court redrew the district boundaries at the end of 2015.In total, we identified the records for 395 members of Congress, matching names and birthdates to voter files. In some cases, no voter record could be identified, perhaps because the name used to register to vote doesn’t match the name on the registration (if a nickname or abbreviation is used, for example) or because the birthdates don’t align (in some states, only months and years are included in the voter data). In addition to the four House members from Florida — Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R), Ted Deutch (D), Mario Diaz-Balart (R) and Alcee Hastings (D) — the following members of Congress are registered to vote outside of their districts.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/freed-egyptian-american-prisoner-returns-home-following-trump-intervention/2017/04/20/d569fe1e-2608-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.2162713440c3
Freed Egyptian American prisoner returns home following Trump interventionBy Philip Rucker  and Karen DeYoung   By Philip Rucker  and Karen DeYoung        April 20     Follow @PhilipRucker  Follow @karendeyoung1An Egyptian American charity worker who was imprisoned in Cairo for three years and became the global face of Egypt’s brutal crackdown on civil society returned home to the United States late Thursday after the Trump administration quietly negotiated her release.President Trump and his aides worked for several weeks with Egyptian President Abdel Fatah al-Sissi to secure the freedom of Aya Hijazi, 30, a U.S. citizen, as well as her husband, Mohamed Hassanein, who is Egyptian, and four other humanitarian workers. Trump dispatched a U.S. government aircraft to Cairo to bring Hijazi and her family to Washington.Hijazi, who grew up in Falls Church, Va., and graduated from George Mason University, was working in Cairo with the Belady Foundation, which she and her husband established as a haven and rehabilitation center for street children in Cairo.[Who is Aya Hijazi, the American freed from jail in Egypt?]The couple and their co-workers  had been incarcerated since May 1, 2014, on child abuse and trafficking charges that were widely dismissed by human rights workers and U.S. officials as false. Virtually no evidence was ever presented against them, and for nearly three years they were held as hearings were inexplicably postponed and trial dates canceled. Human rights groups alleged that they were abused in detention.The Obama administration unsuccessfully pressed Sissi’s government for their release. It was not until Trump moved to reset U.S. relations with Egypt by embracing Sissi at the White House on April 3 — he publicly hailed the autocrat’s leadership as “fantastic” and offered the U.S. government’s “strong backing” — that Egypt’s posture changed. Last Sunday, a court in Cairo dropped all charges against Hijazi and the others.What the White House plans to celebrate as vindication of its early diplomacy comes at the end of a week in which the administration has combated charges of foreign policy confusion. Although the president received wide praise for his decision to punish Syria for its presumed chemical weapons attack with a barrage of cruise missiles, the administration has been criticized for contradictions over policy toward Syria and Turkey, and misstatements on the U.S. response to North Korea’s weapons activity.A senior administration official said that no quid pro quo had been offered for Hijazi’s release but that there had been “assurance from the highest levels [of Sissi’s government] that whatever the verdict was, Egypt would use presidential authority to send her home.” The official said the U.S. side interpreted that to mean that a guilty verdict and sentencing would be followed by a pardon from Sissi, but they were pleasantly surprised.The dropping of charges set in motion the release of Hijazi and Hassanein from custody and their journey to the United States, which was personally overseen by Trump and detailed Thursday by the senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the national security sensitivities of the case.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and deputy national security adviser Dina Powell, who were already planning to visit Egypt this week, met with Sissi on a range of topics. Meanwhile, Trump also sent his military aide, Air Force Maj. Wes Spurlock, to escort Hijazi and her family on the plane home to Washington.Hijazi and Hassanein reunited with the Hijazi family in Cairo this week, and as Mattis traveled on to Israel, Powell, who was born in Egypt and has helped smooth relations between the two countries, stayed behind to accompany the group, the senior administration official said.The travelers touched down at Joint Base Andrews about 10 p.m. Thursday. Hijazi and her brother, Basel, are scheduled to visit the White House on Friday to meet with Trump and his daughter, Ivanka, and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who had followed Hijazi’s plight, the senior administration official said.The beginning of his term has featured controversial executive orders and frequent conflicts with the media.CaptionThe beginning of his term has featured controversial executive orders and frequent conflicts with the media. April 22, 2017  President Trump and first lady Melania Trump arrive at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., to award a Purple Heart to U.S. Army Sgt. First Class Alvaro Barrientos.  Alex Brandon/APBuy PhotoWait 1 second to continue.“It’s been a roller coaster of emotions the past couple of days,” Basel Hijazi said in a telephone interview Thursday from aboard the plane. “We’re crying with relief to have them out.”He added: “We’re very grateful that President Trump personally engaged with the issue. Working closely with the Trump administration was very important for my family at this critical time. It let us be reunited as a family. We’re so grateful.”Since Sissi came to power in a 2013 coup, his authoritarian government has presided over a lurching economy, with massive debt, high unemployment and allegations of corruption. A $12 billion loan last year from the International Monetary Fund and strict austerity measures have led to slow improvements, but Egypt still needs major outside investment and favorable financing.During his U.S. visit, Sissi met with the heads of the IMF and the World Bank, along with the chief executives of Lockheed Martin and General Electric. Sissi has sought billions of dollars in financing from the U.S. Export-Import Bank for massive infrastructure investments.During his campaign, Trump suggested that the United States could “do well without” the Ex-Im Bank. But last week, he reversed himself by nominating former Republican lawmakers Scott Garrett and Spencer Bachus to vacant positions on the bank’s board.The senior Trump administration official said the agreement for Hijazi’s release was the product of Trump’s “discreet diplomacy” — meaning the president’s efforts to cultivate warm relations with strongmen such as Sissi and Chinese President Xi Jinping, in part by avoiding public pronouncements on human rights that might alienate the foreign governments.Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), who said he recently advocated for Hijazi’s release in his own talks with Sissi and was briefed on the latest negotiations, said Trump “handled it the way things like this should be handled.”“The United States can sometimes lead with things, and do it publicly, [in ways] that are offensive to people and likely not get the kind of result that we’d like, whereas working it quietly and making it a priority, but doing so in a way that is not a public embarrassment to the other party, that’s the way they worked this,” Corker said in an interview Thursday.Former Obama administration officials, who were at times criticized for not making a more public case out of Hijazi’s imprisonment, expressed skepticism that Sissi got nothing from Trump in exchange for Hijazi’s freedom.“The robust praise and support the president has given to Sissi, which stands in some contrast to what we did, had to have some price, and maybe this is it,” said Antony J. Blinken, who worked on the Hijazi case as deputy secretary of state. “At least it’s a positive development in which everyone can take some satisfaction.”At the same time, Blinken warned, such support could “have the opposite effect of simply reinforcing [Sissi’s] crackdown at home, in a way I think someday is going to rebound against him, and probably rebound against us. . . . You can try to repress your problems away, but at some point, they will explode.”During Sissi’s visit to Washington, Trump made no public mention of Hijazi’s imprisonment. Nor did he appear to pressure the Egyptian leader on his record of human rights abuses.But the senior administration official said Trump had been following Hijazi’s case.“I want her to come home,” Trump told his top aides and deputized them to work directly with the Egyptian government to secure her release, according to the senior administration official. Officials at the State Department and at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo helped facilitate Hijazi’s departure from Egypt, while attorney Wade McMullen and other leaders from Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights, a nonprofit advocacy organization, also worked to free her.Kerry Kennedy, the group’s president, said in a statement that her team had worked with the administration, and “we are deeply grateful to President Trump for his personal engagement in resolving Aya’s case.”Sissi, a former army chief who led the coup that overthrew Egypt’s elected president, had been barred from the White House by the Obama administration for human rights abuses. Sissi’s post-coup crackdown has been particularly severe against civil society groups, especially those receiving money from abroad. They are frequently denounced by the government and pro-government media as trying to destabilize the country. Thousands of people remain imprisoned.While President Barack Obama was uneasy with the elected government of Mohamed Morsi, whose political organization was tied to the Muslim Brotherhood, his administration rejected Sissi’s charges of terrorism ties. After the coup, Obama withheld aid from Egypt — for decades, the second- largest recipient of U.S. military assistance, after Israel, at more than $1 billion a year.During his presidential campaign, Trump expressed admiration for authoritarian leaders he felt were tough on terrorism and derided what he called Obama’s “weak” leadership.This month, as Sissi smiled beside him in the Oval Office, Trump said warmly: “We agree on so many things. I just want to let everybody know, in case there was any doubt, that we are very much behind President al-Sissi.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/white-house-could-provoke-a-spending-showdown-over-funding-for-border-wall/2017/04/20/88ccc940-2614-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.6dd865591689
White House could provoke a spending showdown over funding for border wallWhite House budget director Mick Mulvaney. (Andrew Harnik/AP)By Kelsey Snell  and Damian Paletta   By Kelsey Snell  and Damian Paletta        April 20     Follow @kelsey_snellWhite House budget director Mick Mulvaney said Thursday that he hopes to use negotiations to keep the government open past April 28 in an effort to force Democrats to back some funding for creating a new wall along the U. S-Mexico border — a risky move that could provoke a spending showdown with congressional Democrats next week.Mulvaney said the White House would be open to funding some of the Democrats’ priorities — such as paying insurance subsidies under the Affordable Care Act — if Democrats agree to fund some of the more controversial parts of President Trump’s agenda, notably the border wall.The new request threatens to undermine weeks of negotiations between Republican leaders and Democrats in Congress to pass a stopgap spending bill to avoid a government shutdown. The negotiations so far have excluded talk of the border wall, which Republicans have argued should be taken up later to keep the government open.“We have our list of priorities,” Mulvaney said at an event hosted by the Institute of International Finance. “We want more money for defense. We want to build a border wall. We want more money for immigration enforcement, law enforcement.”Mulvaney stopped short of saying that the White House would refuse to sign a spending agreement that does not include those priorities, but he made clear that he expects Democrats to reopen talks. Democrats saw Mulvaney’s comments as evidence that the White House is meddling to undermine what they described as successful, bipartisan talks.“Everything had been moving smoothly until the administration moved in with a heavy hand,” said Matt House, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.). “Not only are Democrats opposed to the wall, there is significant Republican opposition as well.”[White House turns up heat on Congress to revise the Affordable Care Act]Republican leaders and members of the House and Senate appropriations committees had hoped to avoid a spending confrontation early in Trump’s administration by negotiating directly with Democrats, whose votes will be necessary to pass any spending bill. Republicans hold a slim 52-to-48 advantage in the Senate, meaning they will need at least eight Democrats to reach the 60 votes required to pass spending measures in that chamber.Drew Hammill, a spokesman for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), said the White House comments make it “more difficult” to reach an agreement, arguing that there is intense opposition to the wall from Democrats in both the House and Senate.Mulvaney said that the White House is willing to negotiate, but only if Democrats bend on funding the wall.“If they tell us to pound sand, I think that’s probably a disappointing indicator of where the next four years is going to go,” Mulvaney said. “If they tell us, however, that they recognize that President Trump won an election, and he should get some of his priorities funded for that reason, elections have consequences, as folks who win always like to say.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-says-he-does-not-see-expanded-role-for-us-in-libya-beyond-isis-fight/2017/04/20/2e2b735c-25ff-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.25dd08020a32
Trump says he does not see expanded role for U.S. in Libya beyond ISIS fightPresident Trump and Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni hold a joint news conference on Thursday at the White House. (Aaron P. Bernstein/Reuters)By Abby Phillip   By Abby Phillip        April 20     Follow @abbydphillipPresident Trump on Thursday reaffirmed his criticism of the Iran nuclear deal and pledged not to expand the United States’ role in Libya beyond fighting the Islamic State.At a time when several of the president’s stances on foreign affairs appear to be shifting, the dual comments represent a fidelity with some of the national security positions Trump staked out during the campaign, many of which were aimed at projecting military strength through a buildup of the armed forces while promising a more limited U.S. role in foreign conflicts.Speaking at a joint news conference with Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, Trump bluntly declared that he saw “no role” for the United States in stabilizing Libya, except in fighting the Islamic State.“I do not see a role in Libya,” Trump said, just seconds after Gentiloni said his country hoped to see more U.S. engagement there. “I think the United States has right now enough roles. We’re in a role everywhere. So I do not see that.”“I do see a role in getting rid of ISIS. We’re being very effective in that regard,” he added.(The Washington Post)For Italy, political instability and violence in Libya have led to a crisis of migrants seeking refuge on its shores, many of them dying on the perilous journey across the Mediterranean. Gentiloni on Thursday urged the United States to further help find a political solution in Libya.“A divided country and in conflict would make civility worse,” he said of Libya. “The U.S. role in this is very critical.”Trump also sharply denounced the 2015 Iran nuclear deal and promised to address it further in the “not-too-distant future.”“It was a terrible agreement. It shouldn’t have been signed,” Trump said. “They are not living up to the spirit of the agreement. I can tell you that.”The comments underscored one part of Trump’s position on the deal during the campaign, but he notably did not reiterate his promise to rip it up immediately, a tacit acknowledgment that the administration does not yet have an alternative to the deal in place.The meeting between Trump and Gentiloni comes weeks before Trump is set to travel to Europe on his first foreign trip as president. He will make a stop at the summit of leaders of the Group of Seven, which will be held in Sicily.Gentiloni is one of several world leaders and close U.S. allies seeking to quickly establish a relationship with Trump and perhaps influence his young presidency.Like Trump, Gentiloni is new to his job, having taken power in December after former prime minister Matteo Renzi resigned after constitutional changes he backed failed in a referendum. While Renzi had a close relationship with President Barack Obama — and openly backed Democrat Hillary Clinton’s candidacy — Gentiloni and Trump come to their relationship without much baggage, potentially opening the door for warm relations.In recent weeks, Trump has shifted on his strident criticism of NATO and said last week in a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg that the alliance was “no longer obsolete.”“The administration’s views of the European Union and the European project are a work in progress,” said Charles Kupchan, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former director for European affairs at the National Security Council under Obama.Trump continues to pressure NATO members to contribute at least the agreed-upon 2 percent of gross domestic product to their own defense, but on Thursday he delivered a more muted warning to Italy.“As we reaffirm our support for historic institutions, we must also reaffirm the requirement that everyone must pay their full and fair share for the cost of defense,” Trump said.Italy, which has long been allied with the United States in military action in the Middle East and elsewhere, maintains that its contribution to NATO goes beyond its financial obligation and encompasses Italian military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan and in the fight against the Islamic State. Italy does not yet devote 2 percent of its GDP to defense spending, but Gentiloni emphasized that Italy’s contribution is increasing.“We know that this will be a gradual process. . . . It has already begun,” Gentiloni said.During the campaign, Trump also voiced support for the Brexit campaign that resulted in Britain leaving the European Union. And in January, he declared that Brexit “is going to end up being a great thing.”After meeting with Gentiloni on Thursday, Trump appeared to affirm the United States’ commitment to Europe.“A strong Europe is very, very important to me as president of the United States,” Trump said. “And it’s also, in my opinion — in my very strong opinion, important for the United States.“We want to see it. We will help it be strong, and it’s very much to everybody’s advantage,” he added.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/20/what-trump-told-the-post-hed-get-done-in-his-first-90-days/?utm_term=.3d26065a741b
What Trump told The Post he’d get done in his first 90 daysPresident Trump at the White House on April 19. (Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images)Thursday is Donald Trump’s 90th full day as president of the United States.In March 2016, before he secured the Republican nomination for the presidency and well before he won the general election, Trump sat down for an interview with The Washington Post’s Robert Costa and Bob Woodward. Over the course of that interview, Trump was asked what he hoped to accomplish in his first 90 days, should he be lucky enough to be elected president.Here’s what he said:Trump: What I would do — and before I talk about legislation, because I think frankly this is more important — number one, it’s going to be a very big tax cut. Because the middle class has been … And Larry Kudlow and numerous people have liked very much … You know, I put in a plan for tax cuts, and I’ve gotten some very good reviews. I would do a tax cut. You have to do a tax cut. Because we’re the highest-taxed nation in the world.But I would start — because I noticed your question briefly — boom, what would you do in the first 90 days? I would immediately start renegotiating our trade deals with Mexico, China, Japan and all of these countries that are just absolutely destroying us. And they have been for years. It’s an incredible tribute to our country that we can lose billions — hundreds of billions — of dollars consistently, year in and year out — and still even survive. We have rebuilt China. We have rebuilt it. I mean, you look at what’s going on in China. We have rebuilt China single-handedly.Now, they’ve done okay with Europe, too, but …Costa: So renegotiate trade deals and have a tax cut. That would be your first 100 days?Trump: Renegotiate trade deals and renegotiate military deals.Costa: Real quick on trade deals …Trump: And by the way, and renegotiate with NATO. And renegotiate with Japan …Let’s evaluate his progress.“A very big tax cut.” For some reason, Trump framed his push for a tax cut as not being “about legislation.” Regardless, the administration hasn’t yet pressed Congress to take up tax reform. Shortly after taking office, Trump and Republican leaders in the House agreed to first tackle an overhaul of the Affordable Care Act — Obamacare — before moving on to change the tax system. Optimistic estimates figured that both could be achieved by August, a longer time frame than 90 days, but still an early effort.The Obamacare overhaul collapsed last month, though the administration appears to be working on an effort to resuscitate it. On Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin declared that enacting tax reform by August was “highly aggressive to not realistic.”Had the House and the Senate passed the Obamacare overhaul in March, it would have fallen in that 90-day window. But the time frame Trump promised on the repeal of Obamacare was 89 days shorter.“Renegotiate trade deals.” Within days of taking office, Trump pledged to immediately address trade deals, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), by quickly signing an executive order. On Jan. 23, he officially ended participation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership with such an order.But after that, things stalled. In late March, the administration again promised to sign an order reviewing NAFTA and a similar agreement with Central American countries. What emerged, though, was an executive order looking at the trade deficit and the possibility of new tariffs. He also signed an order emphasizing the use of American-made products, which is only tangentially related to NAFTA.To renegotiate that agreement, Trump needs to inform Congress 90 days before such discussions begin. That hasn’t happened. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said that will probably be coming in a few weeks. Of course, he said that in early March.“Renegotiate military deals,” “renegotiate with NATO” and “renegotiate with Japan.” One of the things Trump emphasized during his campaign was that he felt as though the United States was being taken advantage of in its interactions with foreign governments. For example, during the first presidential debate, he said: “We defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend South Korea. We defend Saudi Arabia. We defend countries. They do not pay us what they should be paying us, because we are providing a tremendous service and we’re losing a fortune.”Germany, of course, is one of the countries that’s part of NATO. Trump also complained that NATO members weren’t paying their “dues” — his term for countries not committing 2 percent of GDP to military spending, per the terms of the NATO mandate.Trump doesn’t appear to have begun any sort of formal renegotiation with any of these partners. When German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the White House last month, Trump reportedly pressed her on committing more spending to the military, but he doesn’t seem to have received any such commitment.He has claimed success in one renegotiation: The cost of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, from which Trump says he was able to trim $700 million. Our fact-checkers, though, note that the cost reductions were already in the works.Before he was inaugurated, Trump made an additional 90-day pledge on Twitter. Within that window, he said, he’d release “a full report on hacking” related to Russian efforts to influence the 2016 election.Totally made up facts by sleazebag political operatives, both Democrats and Republicans – FAKE NEWS! Russia says nothing exists. Probably…
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2017/04/20/to-deflect-gun-rights-criticism-montana-democrat-shoots-a-tv/?utm_term=.0e95341734dc
To deflect gun rights criticism, Montana Democrat shoots a TVHouse candidate and country-folk singer Rob Quist (D) prepares to take aim in his campaign ad. (YouTube)Democrats are increasingly bullish on their chances in Montana’s May 25 special election, in which country-folk singer Rob Quist is competing for the state’s sole seat in the House of Representatives. One problem: In a January interview, Quist floated the idea of legislation to create a registry for automatic weapons.Politically, it didn’t matter that he left handguns and rifles out of the idea, or that some heavy weapons already must be registered. Republicans, always looking for a kill shot, began portraying Quist as a gun grabber. An ad from the National Republican Congressional Committee threw images of hunting rifles on-screen and said Quist would create a “gun registry,” leaving the impression that he’d take away every gun he could.Quist’s response comes in the surprisingly robust tradition of ads that feature candidates shooting guns. In “Defend,” Quist sets up a shot at a TV screen that’s playing the ad in question.“For generations, this old rifle has protected my family’s ranch,” said Quist. “I won’t stand by while a millionaire from New Jersey tries to attack my Montana values.”The “millionaire” is Greg Gianforte, Quist’s Republican opponent, who settled in Bozeman 24 years ago but who Democrats have portrayed as an out-of-touch interloper. (This was effective in 2016, when Gianforte lost a bid for governor.) And the ad itself resembles “Dead Aim,” a spot Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) ran in 2010 to blunt Republican attempts to tie him to the Obama administration.A key difference between those spots, though, is the salience of the gun issue. In 2010, as Manchin pointed out, he’d won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. But after the 2012 Newtown massacre, Democrats — who’d been reluctantly ready to punt on gun bills — pushed for new background-check legislation. The NRA became even more of a partisan political player, spending nearly all of its political ad money on behalf of Republicans. In 2016, it endorsed Gianforte for governor, and Democrats expect it to go to the airwaves to attack Quist.And on Thursday, Gianforte set them up for it, with an ad demonstrating his opposition to a gun registry — by shooting a screen with a gun.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/20/americans-prefer-how-obama-handled-foreign-policy-to-how-trump-does/?utm_term=.ece80d28a917
Americans prefer how Obama handled foreign policy to how Trump doesA little nugget from a Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday: Half of Americans think that President Trump’s handling of foreign policy is worse than that of President Barack Obama — including a plurality of independents.Interestingly, the poll also finds that a plurality of Americans are more likely to approve than disapprove of Trump’s handling of specific international relationships. Powered by strong support from Republicans, more Americans say they approve of how Trump is handling U.S. policy toward China, North Korea and Syria than say they disapprove. Only on the subject of Russia do more Americans disapprove of Trump’s actions — thanks to softer support from Republicans.On the most consequential action of Trump’s term yet — the missile strikes on a Syrian air base in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack — Americans approve of the action by a nearly 2-to-1 margin.The strikes in Syria are also about the only issue on which there is not a significant partisan split. That’s the ongoing silver lining for Trump: His political base still approves of how he’s performing. There are only two groups among which 50 percent or more think Trump is outperforming Obama on foreign policy. One is Republicans. The other is white Americans without college degrees — the group that was always Trump’s most steadfast ally.For a president who has mastered finding silver linings in dark, dark clouds, that will probably suffice.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/20/the-contested-georgia-congressional-seat-lies-in-the-middle-of-american-racial-politics/?utm_term=.36b410ee8179
The contested Georgia congressional seat lies in the middle of American racial politicsGeorgia’s 6th is located just above the small oval-shaped district in the north of the state, in the middle of three districts. (The Washington Post)One of the ways that partisanship overlaps with American society is along racial lines. The Republican Party is mostly white, as Gallup polling makes clear; the Democratic Party is more diverse.The vast majority of black Americans vote Democratic.It’s fair to wonder how that racial split is affected by — or affects — political polarization, but it has a tangible effect on American politics. The Democratic primaries in 2016 were heavily shaped by Sen. Bernie Sanders’s inability to persuade black Democrats to support his candidacy. Southern states with large black populations gave Hillary Clinton a substantial lead that she never lost.More broadly, the overlap of race and politics can be seen clearly in the House. On average, seats held by Democrats are about half white (meaning, in this case, white non-Hispanic) and about half nonwhite. Seats held by Republicans are about three-quarters white.There’s a lot in that chart, so it’s worth clicking on it to make it larger. (Note, by the way, that Sanders’s former House seat — the at-large district in Vermont — is the whitest Democratic seat in the country.)One thing to note is where the 6th District in Georgia falls — right at the midpoint between the average Democratic and average Republican seat. This is a bit misleading, because white Americans tend to vote more heavily than do nonwhites. (In 2016, 60 percent of voters in Georgia were white, while only 54 percent of the population is white non-Hispanic.) But the composition of the population offers some insight into why the district is currently contested.When we look at the 2016 results by congressional district (using data compiled by Daily Kos) and overlay the density of the white population in each district, there’s a clear pattern of whiter districts more heavily favoring Donald Trump. Right at the center of that cloud? Georgia’s 6th District.Eight Democratic-held House districts (4 percent of them) backed Trump more heavily than the 6th District, and 26 Republican districts (10 percent) were more heavily supportive of Hillary Clinton.The fight for the 6th District in Georgia is defined by far more than the racial composition of the constituents, of course, just as the partisan split nationally has broader causes and effects. But we will note, too, that the proportion of the population that’s white in Kansas’s 4th Congressional District is 74.6 percent, just a bit above average for the Republicans and well above average for the Democrats.That’s the seat that looked as if it might be close ahead of a special election last week. The Republicans held it by a narrower-than-expected-but-still-big-enough margin.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-and-his-aides-sow-confusion-by-sending-mixed-signals-on-foreign-affairs/2017/04/19/aefbbcc0-2506-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.fc7cdd2c249c
Trump and his aides sow confusion by sending mixed signals on foreign affairsPresident Trump seemed to contradict his State Department’s message on Sunday’s referendum in Turkey by congratulating its president on the result. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By David Nakamura  and Karen DeYoung   By David Nakamura  and Karen DeYoung        April 19     Follow @davidnakamura  Follow @karendeyoung1As he nears his 100th day in office, President Trump’s efforts to appear decisive and unequivocal in his responses to fast-moving global crises have been undercut by confusing and conflicting messages from within his administration.Over the past two weeks, policy pronouncements from senior Trump aides have often been at odds with one another — such as whether Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must leave power as part of a negotiated resolution to end that nation’s civil war.In other cases, formal White House written statements have conflicted with those from government agencies, even on the same day. For example, Monday brought disparate U.S. reactions — supportive from Trump, chiding from the State Department — to the Turkish referendum this week that strengthened President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s authoritarian rule.Even when there is unanimity in the messaging — such as Trump’s boast, based on Pentagon statements, that a U.S. Navy “armada” was headed toward the Korean Peninsula — the administration was forced into the embarrassing admission a few days later that the strike group was, in fact, sailing in the opposite direction.(The Washington Post)[Trump administration defends how it described ship movements amid North Korean tensions]Although every administration experiences growing pains, the recent succession of mixed signals over key national security issues has stood out, painting a picture to some of an administration that has not fully developed its policies or a broader international agenda and whose key agencies are not communicating with one another — or the White House. It is a situation that has led foreign diplomats and congressional lawmakers to express uncertainty about the administration’s goals and about who is speaking on its behalf.Former national security officials who served under both Republican and Democratic presidents emphasized that the Trump administration has been hampered by a president who has been slow to appoint hundreds of mid-level managers at Cabinet agencies, including the Pentagon and the State Department, and who has at times expressed disdain for the traditional interagency decision-making process.The result is that the normally meticulous care that goes into formulating and coordinating U.S. government policy positions or even simple statements is often absent. Institutional memory is lacking, these former officials said, and mistakes and contradictions easily slip through the cracks.“Part of it reflects the fact that these departments are not staffed, and they’re not operating at capacity or at speed,” said Stephen J. Hadley, who served as President George W. Bush’s national security adviser. “These Cabinet secretaries are kind of home alone, working with people that they really don’t know. They don’t have their own people in place, their policies in place, or processes in place yet.”Inside Trump’s National Security Council, the agency charged with coordinating foreign policy decision-making and consistent messaging, the disarray has been palpable. Trump’s first choice for his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, was forced out amid revelations that he had misled senior officials, including Vice President Pence, about his communications with Russian officials before Trump took office.Beyond his difficulties with the Russia issue, Flynn was unable, in the few weeks that he presided over the NSC staff, to establish a smooth decision-making process that could rationalize the often widely disparate views of Trump’s key White House advisers and new Cabinet members. His replacement, H.R. McMaster, moved quickly to consolidate power by pushing out Trump’s senior strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, who had initially been awarded a seat on the NSC “principals committee.”McMaster has sought, with incomplete success, to exert more control over staffing and to establish a more disciplined process in place of what had been a largely ad hoc system. In the wake of Trump’s decision to authorize missile strikes on a Syrian airfield as retribution for the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons, McMaster said that the administration had held several NSC meetings, including with Trump aboard Air Force One and at his private Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, to develop and coordinate the military operation.Yet those efforts were to some degree undermined when senior officials went on the Sunday political talk shows after the strikes and offered conflicting statements on Assad’s future. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said the administration’s top goal was defeating the Islamic State, while Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said no resolution to the Syrian civil war was possible with Assad in power.“Public diplomacy is a huge tool, presenting a united front, presenting a shared vision of how you approach global affairs — everything from the use of military force to sanctions,” said Jennifer Psaki, who served as the White House communications director and as a State Department spokeswoman under President Barack Obama. “When you have officials stating conflicting viewpoints, you’re sending a confusing message — not just to people in this country and to Congress, but confusing and conflicting messages to partners and allies around the world.”Trump aides disputed the suggestion the administration was speaking with more than one voice. Michael Anton, the director of strategic communications at the NSC, said there was “nothing inconsistent” about the White House’s Syria policy.“Defeating ISIS has always been the paramount goal, and nobody ever envisioned a long-term future for Assad,” Anton said, using an acronym for the terrorist group. He emphasized that there is “communication at every level, every day” among policy experts and among the communication staffs at the various agencies and the White House.Most of the public statements made by the agencies are vetted through Anton’s office before they are released, he said.But there is no permanent spokesman at either State or the Pentagon, making it difficult to keep up with the deluge of requests from reporters. Anton has three aides, while Obama’s NSC had up to seven people in the same division, according to former Obama aides.This week, the Trump White House appeared to be on a different page than the State Department in the wake of the Turkish referendum that greatly expanded Erdogan’s powers. While the State Department emphasized the United States’ interest in Turkey’s “democratic development” and the importance of the “rule of law and a diverse and free media,” the White House statement said Trump had called to congratulate Erdogan and discuss their shared goal of defeating the Islamic State.Anton said the statements were not in conflict, citing a “tension in U.S. policy goals.”U.S. and Turkish officials said Trump and Erdogan planned to meet in person before a NATO summit scheduled for May 25 in Brussels.“You want to keep a NATO ally, a partner in the strategic fight against ISIS,” he said. “You also have a national interest in democracy in Turkey … Sometimes foreign policy requires making difficult choices and balancing interests that are in tension.”[Trump plans to meet the Turkish president next month]While some analysts spoke approvingly of a “good cop, bad cop” approach, none seemed sure whether that is what the administration had intended.Outside experts said there were budding signs of maturation within the administration. They cited the decision-making process on the Syrian strikes and the glitch-free summit between Trump and Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago two weeks ago.While 100 days is a traditional milestone at which the progress of a new administration is assessed, it is the wrong measure for the Trump insurgency, which promised to upend traditional ways of doing government business, Hadley said.“There is a shakedown cruise for every administration,” he said. “This one is going to be longer and bumpier, precisely because of how they came to power … The question is how it will look after the first 150 days or maybe 200.”Former officials and foreign policy analysts viewed some of the administration’s policy reversals — including its renewed support for NATO and tougher tone on Russia — as the natural evolution from inexperience and lack of knowledge to confrontations with reality.Still, events of the past week have raised concerns about consequences in a volatile world, where such missteps can be costly.The administration’s erroneous statements about the location and direction of the USS Carl Vinson — an aircraft carrier that officials said was dispatched to the Korean Peninsula last week as a show of force against North Korea’s belligerence — were widely viewed as a simple “screw-up,” in the words of several former officials.While administration officials said the goal was to reassure regional partners, South Korea expressed concern over a possible bait and switch, and China warned against escalation.White House press secretary Sean Spicer insisted Wednesday that the White House had said nothing incorrect, since the ship is now — more than a week after it was announced — apparently on its way toward the Korean Peninsula.“We said it was heading there, it is heading there,” he said.To those who worked in the Obama White House, the disarray has led to a sense of vindication about their own strategy after years of being accused by political rivals of micromanaging the agencies.“Success of a policy in some cases resides as much in the nuance of the messaging as it does in the policy,” said Bernadette Meehan, who served as the NSC spokeswoman under Obama. “You explain it, get people to buy in, rather than stoking up fears unnecessarily. It’s in­cred­ibly important if you want a policy to have success to have cohesive messaging.”Correction: An earlier version of this story contained an incorrect date for the NATO summit in Brussels.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/even-in-red-states-republicans-feel-free-to-criticize-trump-on-his-taxes-and-travel/2017/04/19/693f4402-2517-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.96848b6b2306
Even in red states, Republicans feel free to criticize Trump on his taxes and travelSen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) speaks with Senate colleagues during a breakfast meeting on Capitol Hill on July 7. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)By Philip Rucker  and Sean Sullivan   By Philip Rucker  and Sean Sullivan        April 19     Follow @PhilipRucker  Follow @WaPoSeanOklahoma may be Trump country, but that did not prevent James Lankford (R), the state’s junior senator, from criticizing President Trump this week by saying he ought to “keep his promise” to release his tax returns.Nor did Trump’s popularity in Iowa stop Sen. Joni Ernst (R) from telling her constituents there that she is perturbed by the president’s frequent jaunts to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla.“I do wish he would spend more time in Washington, D.C. That is what we have the White House for,” Ernst said at a town hall meeting Tuesday in Wall Lake, Iowa. She said she has not spoken to Trump about “the Florida issue,” but it “has been bothering not just me, but some other members of our caucus.”As Republican lawmakers face questions from their constituents back home, some elected leaders have been willing to break with their party’s president. Although they generally support Trump’s agenda on such priorities as a tax overhaul and health care, these Republicans are criticizing the president over his continued refusal to make public his tax returns, as past presidents have, and his costly trips to Florida.Some of those criticizing Trump are not moderates eager to establish political independence, but rather conservatives from red states who are popular with the voters who propelled Trump into office.Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) answers questions during a news conference at the U.S. Capitol on Nov. 30, 2015. (Win Mcnamee/Getty Images)The ease with which a GOP favorite such as Ernst has separated from Trump — she has criticized his Florida travel and his defiance on taxes — underscores the weak grip the president and his political operation have on the Republican Party.“It is hard to defend in today’s world not releasing your tax returns, and it’s hard to defend playing golf at a seven-star resort when it’s a busy time and people are anxious about problems being addressed,” said Ed Rogers, a GOP operative and lobbyist.David Carney, a GOP strategist, said finding ways to break with Trump on issues such as tax returns and travel “is a smart strategy” — especially at a moment when Trump opponents are galvanized.“Back in 2009 and 2010, if Democrats had not been drinking Kool-Aid, saying ‘Obama makes no mistakes,’ and actually called him out on a few things, they would have had a better chance to survive the onslaught in the midterm elections,” Carney said.White House officials say that although they wish GOP lawmakers would be fully supportive of Trump, it matters more that they back him on policies.“The president has been pretty clear about where he is on releasing his tax returns,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said. “People knew that before they voted in November, and he still won overwhelmingly. The American people are a lot more concerned about their own taxes than President Trump’s, and that’s what he’s focused on.”Democratic leaders are connecting the two issues, however, threatening to block Trump’s efforts to overhaul the tax code unless he releases his tax returns so the public can determine whether he would personally benefit from the legislative changes.Mar-a-Lago, President Trump’s private resort in Palm Beach, Fla. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)Trump has had plenty of defenders, of course. At a town hall meeting Monday in Little Rock, one man asked Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) to demand Trump release his tax returns “so we can see what kind of connections he has to different countries.”Cotton responded by repeating the talking points employed by White House press secretary Sean Spicer.“As far as I’m aware, the president says he’s still under audit,” Cotton said, drawing loud boos in the crowd.Cotton continued by noting that the president filed a personal financial disclosure as a candidate and arguing that because Trump “puts his names on buildings where he has them,” his foreign connections are well known.Cotton’s defense drew applause from some in the audience but more jeers and shouting from others. One woman stood and shook her head as the senator finished his response.Some Republican campaign operatives said their party’s politicians would be wise to move on from the tax returns debate, recognizing that it may be nearly impossible to persuade Trump to do something he has steadfastly refused to do.“Anyone who thought Trump would ever release his taxes is mistaken,” said Alice Stewart, a GOP consultant. “It’s not going to happen — no way, no how. Everybody has to get used to that idea.”Still, the list of Republican senators and House members saying Trump should release his tax returns has grown to at least a dozen.Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) said this week on CNN that releasing his tax returns is “the right thing to do.” Several other GOP House members — including some House Freedom Caucus conservatives — have either signed a letter calling on Trump to release his returns or backed a Democratic measure to force their release.On Tuesday in rural Rogers County, Okla., where Trump won 76 percent of the vote last November, Lankford was asked at a town hall meeting about Trump’s decision not to release his tax returns.“He promised he would,” Lankford responded, according to the Tulsa World newspaper. “He should keep his promise.”Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) was quick to join her colleagues, saying in a statement Wednesday that Trump “should release his taxes voluntarily like his predecessors did before him.” She went on to say, “If the investigative committees believe that they need the president’s taxes during the course of their investigations [into Russia’s role in the 2016 campaign] then it is in their right to subpoena them.”Trump’s frequent trips to Mar-a-Lago have also been raising concerns in the GOP. He has spent seven of the 13 weekends since he has been president at his Florida resort, often combining golf outings and leisurely meals with official business, such as the visits of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Chinese President Xi Jinping.“I don’t like him going down to Mar-a-Lago, or wherever it is,” Rep. Steve Knight (R-Calif.) said during a Tuesday town hall meeting.Comstock posited, “Camp David would be a better weekend retreat and save the taxpayers money,” referring to the official presidential retreat in Maryland that is already outfitted to secure the commander in chief and his visitors.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/justices-express-sympathy-to-missouri-church-at-supreme-court-hearing/2017/04/19/4d3f8be6-2070-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.4796fe07e053
Justices express sympathy with Missouri church at Supreme Court hearingBy Robert Barnes   By Robert Barnes        April 19     Follow @scotusreporterThe Supreme Court’s newest look at the separation of church and state focused Wednesday on the hard and unforgiving surface of a church preschool’s playground in Missouri.Trinity Lutheran Church in Columbia, Mo., wanted to participate in a state program that reimburses the cost of rubberizing the surface of playgrounds. But the state said that was not allowed. The exclusion has raised big questions about how to uphold the Constitution’s prohibition on government support for religion without discriminating against those who are religious.“It’s a fraught issue. It’s a hard issue,” said Justice Elena Kagan, adding, “It’s an issue on which I — I guess I’m going to say nobody is completely sure that they have it right.”[Court agrees to hear church playground case with larger implications]Kagan and other justices across the court’s ideological spectrum indicated that they believed Missouri might have gone too far in excluding Trinity Lutheran. The court’s ultimate decision in the case could have wide-ranging implications for government aid to religious institutions.Missouri’s state constitution, similar to those of about three dozen states, directs that “no money shall ever be taken from the public treasury, directly or indirectly, in aid of any church, sect, or denomination of religion.”David A. Cortman, a lawyer for the conservative group Alliance Defending Freedom, representing the church, acknowledged the difficulty religious cases raise but said this one should be easier for the justices than most.“All we’re talking about is . . . a safer surface on the playground for when kids play,” Cortman told the court, adding, “That doesn’t enable any religious activity.”But James R. Layton, a Jefferson City lawyer representing the state, said that no matter where the line is drawn on the separation of church and state, “writing a check that says ‘payable to Trinity Lutheran Church’ ought to be on the other side of the line.”Layton seemed to face an uphill battle in defending the exclusion of church groups from a program with only a secular goal — making playgrounds safer — and for which Trinity’s Learning Center would have been approved had it been a secular preschool.Kagan challenged him. “You’re depriving one set of actors from being able to compete in the same way everybody else can compete, because of their religious identification,” she said. In such a case, she said, the state’s interests “have to rise to an extremely high level.”Kagan asked tough questions of Cortman as well. But the court already has a conservative majority — likely to include the newest justice, Neil M. Gorsuch — that is protective of religious plaintiffs. Sympathetic comments from Kagan and Justice Stephen G. Breyer, her fellow liberal, bode well for the church.[George Will: When separation of church and state leads to children with scraped knees]The hour-long argument suggested there could be a majority for a narrow ruling in favor of churches when programs are generally applicable to the public and secure secular benefits promoting, for instance, health and safety. Some states with constitutional restrictions like Missouri’s allow such participation.And — adding a twist to the case — Missouri now does as well. The state’s new Republican governor, Eric Greitens, announced last week that he was reversing the policy that denied Trinity’s application in 2012 and that churches are now eligible to participate.The state’s new attorney general agrees, and Layton was appointed by the state to defend its old policy. Several justices asked why that did not make the case moot.Certainly if the new policy had been in place it would have affected the court’s decision to review the case, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said.But Cortman and Layton argued that the court should decide the issue, because the policy could be changed again in the future. Justices spent little time on that issue and more on the merits of the arguments.The backdrop for the case was a 2004 Supreme Court decision, Locke v. Davey, that said Washington state’s college scholarship program could deny those who wanted to major in theology.Cortman and some of the conservative justices said that was different because a theology degree was obviously more closely tied to religious practice.[Gorsuch jumps right in]Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. had tough questions for Layton, and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. pointed out a number of federal programs that allowed government funding for safety and protection of churches, synagogues and mosques.Another oddity of the case is that the court accepted it in January 2016, before the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. The court delayed scheduling it until now, when it has a full roster of justices, perhaps to avoid a tieGorsuch asked few questions Wednesday. He did volunteer that everyone in the case agrees that the church was subject to discrimination by being told it could not participate in the program, which reimburses those that resurface their playgrounds through a state program that recycles old tires.Justices Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor were Cortman’s toughest questioners.Sotomayor took exception to Cortman’s argument that Missouri’s program interfered with the right to free religious exercise.“We seem to be confusing money with religious practice. I don’t think the two are tied,” she said. “This church is not going to close its religious practices or its doors because its playground doesn’t have these tires.”Missouri and the majority of states restrict the use of tax money for religious institutions, Sotomayor said. “They’re just saying, ‘We don’t want to be involved with the church,’ ” she said.Ginsburg noted that Trinity said it does not discriminate among the students it accepts. But, she asked, what about a theoretical case in which a church school favored Lutherans, then other Protestants, then perhaps allowed in Jews or others as space permitted? Should public money go for such a church?Cortman replied that he believed Trinity should be included in the grant program even if it restricted its school population to Lutherans.Breyer pressed Layton on why it was proper for Missouri to provide religious institutions with some services but not others.“Does the Constitution of the United States permit a state or a city to say, we give everybody in this city police protection but not churches?” Breyer asked. “We give everybody fire protection, but let the church burn down. We give everybody public health protection, but not a church.”Layton said he would be reluctant to make such a claim. But he said there were differences.“One is that we are not actually taking money from the state treasury and giving it to the church,” Layton said. “And this court has seldom, if ever, actually said it’s okay to write a check from the public treasury to a church. . . . We’re providing a service. And the service there is not being provided solely for the benefit of the church. The service is being provided for police and fire for the benefit of the public safety.”The case is Trinity Lutheran Church of Columbia v. Comer.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/trump-must-decide-whether-to-support-or-undermine-obamacare/2017/04/19/a52193d6-2502-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.4e815d05669b
Trump must decide whether to support or undermine ObamacareBy Paige Winfield Cunningham   By Paige Winfield Cunningham        April 19     Follow @pw_cunninghamPresident Trump is pressuring Congress to sink parts of the Affordable Care Act. But now that the first attempt at a GOP health-care overhaul has failed, he must decide whether to throw the law a line.The White House and Republican lawmakers are facing key decisions that could either improve the insurance marketplaces established by the ACA next year or prompt insurers to further hike rates or withdraw from those marketplaces entirely. Republicans had hoped to protect those with marketplace coverage while lawmakers replaced Obamacare.But with that effort hitting a wall, Trump and his health-care decision-makers are in a bind: They can either let the current system fail and risk raising the ire of 11 million Americans who use the marketplaces, or help stabilize Obamacare and potentially make it harder for Republicans in Congress to abandon the law itself.“It’s an awkward political environment, there’s no question about it,” said Lanhee Chen, a health-policy expert and former adviser to 2012 presidential candidate Mitt Romney.Republican objections to the ACA naturally lead them away from assisting it, but the party now bears some responsibility for what happens to it, Chen added.President Obama and President-elect Donald Trump speak to the media during a meeting in the Oval Office on Nov. 10. Trump must decide whether to support Obamacare now that the GOP health-care plan has failed. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)“The reality of this is Republicans will face some political repercussions for what happens to Obamacare,” he said.Trump and other Republicans have long predicted a so-called death spiral for the state-based marketplaces set up under President Obama’s signature domestic achievement. Trump has often tweeted and said on the campaign trail that the law will “die of its own weight.” He shrugged off the recent failure of the GOP health-care bill by saying the law is “exploding” anyway.“The best thing we can do, politically speaking, is let Obamacare explode,” Trump said in the Oval Office last month. “It’s exploding right now.”[ACA remains ‘law of the land,’ but Trump vows to explode it]The dire predictions have partially come true: Although some state marketplaces offered multiple plan options and only modest premium raises last year, many others provided only one plan choice and double-digit premium hikes. Next year’s outlook is still unclear, but it’s unlikely the marketplaces will suddenly attract a better mix of healthy enrollees to help lower costs.If the marketplaces further deteriorate, Republicans may take the fall, surveys show. A recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority of Americans will now blame Republicans, not Democrats, for marketplace problems, because the GOP spent the past seven years promising to fix and replace the system.That reality is forcing Republicans, including Trump, to seriously consider a half-dozen actions that could help improve — or at least sustain — the marketplaces where Americans without employer-sponsored plans buy coverage.“Looking at next year, if we imagine that the marketplace right now is, say, a C-minus, there are several things that need to be done to just preserve it at its C-minus level,” said Mike Adelberg, who under Obama directed the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight established  at the Department of Health and Human Services.There is a list of actions the administration must decide whether to take to keep the marketplaces humming, most of them through regulatory actions at the Health and Human Services Department or through the Internal Revenue Service.The actions center on three programs: cost-sharing reductions, reinsurance and risk corridors. Cost-sharing refers to government subsidies to low-income Americans to help them pay for insurance. Trump threatened recently to let such subsidies lapse, but Democrats say they will shut down the government as part of the spending negotiations next week if the president follows through.Administration officials and lawmakers are still deciding how to handle the issue.  A White House spokesman said only that “no decisions have been made at this time.”[Republicans may not want Trump to end Obamacare payments]Reinsurance and risk corridors are two programs set up under the ACA to redistribute funds from insurers with healthier enrollees to insurers with sicker, more expensive customers.The marketplaces could also be hurt or helped depending on whether the IRS enforces the ACA’s individual mandate to buy coverage and whether the administration enforces new, tighter rules around enrollment.By pulling these levers, Congress and the administration could buy goodwill with insurers and also help shield themselves from criticisms that they’re ignoring the plight of those who have already seen the cost of their Obamacare plans rise dramatically. The marketplaces are already facing enough problems without Republicans trying to hurt them even more, said Gail Wilensky, who directed Medicare and Medicaid under George H.W. Bush.“It is in no one’s interest to stir that pot more than has already been stirred, which is quite enough without anyone’s help,” Wilensky said.Trump and his administration have given mixed signals on how they will approach the issue.The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued tighter enrollment rules last week that shorten the sign-up period for marketplace plans, mandate people pay any outstanding premiums before new coverage begins and, if they’re trying to sign up outside the regular season, require them to prove they meet the qualifications. These are all changes that pleased insurers selling marketplace plans.But the administration has also essentially stopped enforcing the individual mandate to buy coverage, which was supposed to be an important ACA tool to ensure that not just sick people, but also those who are healthy, buy coverage.The outgoing Obama administration had said that starting this year, the IRS wouldn’t accept tax filings if people failed to indicate whether they had been insured. But under Trump, the agency has said it will continue the practice of accepting forms with that answer left blank, saying the decision meshes with the president’s executive order to reduce the burdens of the health-care law .“Processing silent returns means that taxpayer returns are not systematically rejected, allowing them to be processed and minimizing burden on taxpayers, including those expecting a refund,” the agency said in a statement, referring to returns that don’t indicate the taxpayer’s health-care status.It remains unclear whether the Trump administration and Republicans will provide extra payments to insurers, which insurers say are essential for helping them hold down premiums. The most pressing of those payments are  cost-sharing reductions, which reimburse insurers for discounting extra insurance costs such as co-payments and deductible s for those with incomes lower than 250 percent of the federal poverty level.The payments amount to about $7 billion next year. That’s far less than the $110 billion the federal government pays every year to subsidize premiums but still a significant amount for insurers who are overwhelmingly losing money on the marketplaces.Congress must decide whether to provide those payments in a government funding bill it is taking up next week. Although top Republicans appear reluctant to withhold them, Trump has suggested they could be used as leverage to get Democrats on board with other GOP priorities, such as funding a border wall.Insurers are also closely watching the administration for how it will treat the reinsurance and risk-corridor programs. They are due one more set of reinsurance payments before the program phases out, and it’s unclear whether the administration will pay all the money available or repay some of the funds to the U.S. treasury, as some Republicans have called for and as the law seems to direct.A number of insurers have also sued for risk-corridor payments, which the federal government lacked sufficient funds to cover over the past few years. If they get those payments, some insurers might be more prone to continuing to sell marketplace plans next year.“Hypothetically, if the administration was to settle on the risk corridors, it would make people feel a whole heck of a lot better about sticking around,” Adelberg said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/democrats-turn-to-sanders-and-his-star-power-to-rebuild-the-party/2017/04/19/78c38efc-2502-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.020fc88b5dfa
Democrats turn to Sanders and his star power to rebuild the partySen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), center, and Democratic National Committee Chairman Thomas Perez, far left, greet members of the band Relic at the Louisville Palace on April 18. (Sam Upshaw Jr./AP)By David Weigel   By David Weigel        April 19     Follow daveweigelLOUISVILLE —  Earlier this week, before heading downstairs to speak to nearly 3,000 Ken­tuckians, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) reminisced about his 2016 presidential campaign. After he had gained steam, and his rallies had become arena-size events, he was struck by the difference between his crowds and those at Democratic Party fundraisers.“We’d have a rally with five or ten thousand young people out, a great deal of energy,” Sanders said between bites of a steak sandwich. “Then I’d walk into a room and there’d be a thousand people from the Democratic Party. You were in two different worlds — one full of energy, one full of idealism. And the other, full of good people — I don’t mean to put them down — who are the bedrock of the Democratic Party.”At that moment, Sanders was on the second day of a week-long, cross-country speaking tour with Democratic National Committee Chairman Thomas Perez. The DNC was picking up half the bill for the 12-seat chartered plane as well as the venues, including the downtown Louisville Palace.As Sanders spoke, Perez was a block away, meeting with party leaders who — like most Democratic leaders — had backed Hillary Clinton for president. Later that evening, they would take a stage and praise Sanders, who is not a Democrat, for reinvigorating their party. A chairman who defeated Sanders’s preferred candidate to run the DNC was now touring as his opening act.“Our values are aligned on so many of the critical issues that confront the nation and the Democratic Party,” Perez said in an interview. “When people actually look at the platform of the Democratic Party — they’ll say, ‘We need community college!’ — well, look at the platform. When they say, ‘We need a $15 minimum wage’ — look at the platform.”(Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)The first 24 hours of the tour revealed both the strength and the seams in the strategy. It began in Portland, Maine, on Monday evening, where a crowd wrapped around the State Theatre to see the “Come Together, Fight Back” tour. Maine’s Democratic Party leaders flitted through the crowds with clipboards, encouraging fans of Sanders to sign up.[Republicans avoid big loss by forcing runoff in Ga. House race]They had competition. A group of rogue “Berniecrats” had brought clipboards of their own, with petitions encouraging the senator to run for president in 2020 as an independent. When the rally began, a mention of Perez was met with boos audible over mild applause; the loudest heckling came from a man whose T-shirt declared his support for the Green Party.Once onstage, Perez described his Democratic Party as a vessel for activists, with a platform they could love. It was activists, he said, who stopped the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. It was activists who had passed a ­minimum-wage hike, which Maine’s Republican governor had halted.“In these first 100 days, the most remarkable thing is not what Donald Trump did — the most remarkable thing is what you did across the county,” Perez said.The chairman left the stage, and a disembodied announcer introduced Sanders. This time, there were no boos; over 48 minutes, Sanders mentioned Perez’s DNC only once.“Our job is to radically transform the Democratic Party into a 50-state party,” Sanders said. “Our job is to create a democratic Democratic Party, a grass-roots party, where decisions are made from the bottom up.”Any Sanders supporter could crack that code. In 2016, especially after it became clear that he could not win the nomination, Sanders and his delegates waged a largely successful campaign to move the party to the left.The platform Perez could not praise quickly enough had been altered to endorse Sanders’s economic issues, as well as marijuana decriminalization and the end of a ban on federal money paying for abortion. A “unity commission,” created to appease Sanders delegates who blamed “superdelegates” for skewing the primaries, had finally been impaneled — and Sanders was watching to see whether it followed his advice.Since Clinton’s general election loss, there was little resistance inside the party to Sanders’s politics. As the plane flew to Louisville, a Harvard-Harris poll was being released that found Sanders polling at 57 percent favorability with all voters. No politician in America was better-liked.“Sanders is an asset to the Democrats,” said Mark Penn, a former Clinton pollster and strategist, in a statement about the poll.In Kentucky, where Clinton pipped Sanders in the primary, the senator’s star power followed him to every stop. After he finished his steak sandwich, a souvenir-seeker raced to his half-empty plate and picked up a french fry, waving it at a table of his friends like a trophy.On a midday visit to Frankfort, where the millennial-focused news site Mic had convened a group of Kentucky voters, Sanders walked past posters from his 2016 bid that had never left the venue’s windows; selfie-seekers waited more than an hour to see him.“The reason we are on this tour is to do nothing less than try to revitalize American democracy,” Sanders said.Doing so did not mean going easy on Democrats. In Frankfort, as in Monday’s speeches, Perez and Sanders suggested that Democrats had lost voters to Trump’s GOP because they had stopped talking to them. Perez and Sanders took turns explaining to the Mic-assembled panel that Democrats wanted to help them all — to provide free college education, to pay coal miners’ pensions, to make health care cheaper.“I suspect that the Democratic Party here in Kentucky has not done the kind of job that it should have done in explaining [that] hundreds of thousands of people have received health care,” Sanders said to a scrum of reporters after the panel.[Republicans avoided calamity in this month’s two special elections, but a lot more peril lies ahead]Perez, who has criticized Democrats for the same sins, took more shots at the Trump presidency. “The cost of one trip to Mar-a-Lago would fund the White House logs database for 13 years,” he said, after a windup about the Trump budget’s spending cuts. On the way back to Louisville, Perez suggested that Democrats had countless opportunities to portray Trump as a phony populist; the challenge was in focusing and getting anyone to listen.“Your life is not going to improve if your family member, who has an opioid addiction, loses his health care,” Perez said. “Your life isn’t going to improve if an infrastructure bill doesn’t have prevailing wage requirements.”On Tuesday, as the tour continued, Perez and Sanders fell in and out of sync. Perez had spent weeks talking up Jon Ossoff, the Democrat trying to win the suburban Atlanta congressional district vacated when Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price joined the Trump administration. After a closer-than-expected April 11 defeat in a Kansas district, Perez thought Democrats needed to “swing at everything.”Sanders was less interested in the Ossoff race. “He’s not a progressive,” he said. He was endorsing Democrats based on their economic populism; they could differ from progressives on social issues but not on the threat of the mega-rich to American politics. Soon, he said, the 5-to-4 majority on the Supreme Court was likely to make it legal for the wealthy to give unlimited sums to candidates, and the only way to fight back was grass-roots politicking and small donations.“If you are running in rural Mississippi, do you hold the same criteria as if you’re running in San Francisco?” he said. “I think you’d be a fool to think that’s all the same.”Sanders had said this before, and each time, he had sparked anger from a center-left ready to accuse him of abandoning women or nonwhite voters. On Thursday, he was set to campaign in Omaha for Heath Mello, a Democrat running for mayor who had previously backed a bill requiring ultrasounds for women considering abortions.But Perez and Sanders were on the same page about candidate diversity. “I live in the people’s republic of Takoma Park,” Perez said. “If you demand fealty on every single issue, then it’s a challenge. The Democratic Party platform acknowledges that we’re pro-choice, but there are communities, like some in Kansas, where people have a different position.”By Tuesday night, the tour was starting to click. There was just one heckler in the Palace, who yelled “corporate shill” at the chairman during a quiet moment. As in Maine, there was a standing ovation when a local member of Congress, a Democrat who had backed Clinton, endorsed Sanders’s call for “single-payer,” Canada-style health care.And there was a smoother stage show. Perez himself introduced Sanders, and the senator told their audience to “bring millions of people into the political process” and create “a political system not dominated by a handful of billionaires.”After 45 minutes, Perez re-emerged from backstage, following Sanders to the place where a bluegrass band called Relic was playing “This Land Is Your Land.” The two of them clapped along, belting out Woody Guthrie’s lyrics. From a distance, it looked as if they were singing in harmony.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/19/where-americas-carrier-groups-were-as-the-administration-talked-about-its-armada/?utm_term=.446d04fa19d1
Where America’s carrier groups were as the administration talked about its ‘armada’President Trump's 'armada' ordered to sail toward North Korea was heading in the opposite direction. The USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier is now sailing north. (Reuters)The Trump administration has faced criticism this week for its continued insistence that an “armada” (in the words of the president) was headed to the Korean Peninsula as a show of force as tensions with North Korea increased. As it turns out, that armada, anchored by the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson, was actually headed away from the region, on its way through the Indian Ocean.The geopolitical analysis firm Stratfor tracks the movement of American carrier strike and amphibious ready groups as they patrol the world’s oceans. Each week, Stratfor updates a map of the approximate positions of the ships at sea, relying on open-source reports. (It’s careful to note that these maps don’t include sensitive information, which makes sense: Hiding an aircraft carrier from foreign observers is tricky.)Stratfor provided The Washington Post with the maps it has compiled since Trump was inaugurated. When it is stitched together, you can see the progress of the Carl Vinson from San Diego, across the Pacific Ocean and into Southeast Asia. You also can see how the administration’s incorrect information affected the firm’s analysis. In the animation below, keep your eye on CVN 70 — the Carl Vinson’s strike group. (Other vessels are indicated below the map.)Amphibious Ready Groups (blue)Carrier Strike Groups (orange)CVN 68: The USS NimitzCVN 69: The USS Dwight D. EisenhowerCVN 70: The USS Carl VinsonCVN 71: The USS Theodore RooseveltCVN 77: The USS George H.W. BushThe Post’s Aaron Blake put together a timeline of the administration’s claims that the Carl Vinson was headed to Korea, which we can use to compare to Stratfor’s maps.On March 30, before the issue was raised, Stratfor placed the Carl Vinson in the Sea of Japan between that country and North Korea. It had sailed there from the South China Sea two weeks earlier, as indicated by the dashed orange line.The firm describes the Carl Vinson’s activity as being in support of Foal Eagle, an annual joint military exercise with South Korea.On April 6, Stratfor put it in Singapore, having traveled southwest from the Korean Peninsula.On April 13, though, it’s suddenly back near Korea — without the previous week’s travel near Malaysia indicated. As Blake notes in his timeline, this was the period during which the administration was (often implicitly) indicating that the Carl Vinson was headed toward Korea. We know, though, that it wasn’t. Instead, it was where Stratfor had placed it the week before.On April 14, the Navy posted a photo of the Carl Vinson strike group at an unidentified position in the Indian Ocean.The aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70), front, leads the Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer USS Michael Murphy (DDG 112) and the Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Lake Champlain (CG 57) in the Indian Ocean. Mass Communication Spec. 3rd Class Danny Kelley/Navy)On April 15, it was in the Sunda Strait between Sumatra and West Java.The aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) transits the Sunda Strait. (Mass Communication Spec. 2nd Class Sean M. Castellano/Navy)Stars and Stripes reports that it would take four or five days for the Carl Vinson to travel from the Korean Peninsula to the strait.As you can see from the map, the only other naval vessels nearby are those in the amphibious ready group — LHD 8 — led by the USS Makin Island, an amphibious assault ship that, in the April 13 update, was located off the coast of Taiwan.What’s particularly remarkable about the administration’s assertions is how readily they fell apart. The consequences may extend beyond immediate embarrassment. The Wall Street Journal interviewed a candidate for the presidency in South Korea, Hong Joon-pyo.“What was said was very important for the national security of South Korea,” Hong said to the Journal’s reporters. “If that was a lie, then during Trump’s term, South Korea will not trust whatever Trump says.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/19/theres-also-a-partisan-split-in-when-people-vote/?utm_term=.49e637f67321
There’s also a partisan split in *when* people vote.Voters wait in line to cast ballots during early voting Oct. 20 in Sandy Springs, Ga. (John Bazemore/Associated Press)Cook Political Report’s Dave Wasserman made an interesting observation on Twitter on Tuesday evening.Increasing polarization of U.S. elections isn't just geographic; it's how we vote. Dems show up early, Republicans voting on Election Day.— Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) April 19, 2017He was responding directly to the results of a special election in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District. As expected, based on who’d already returned ballots, Democrat Jon Ossoff jumped out to an early lead when the state published the results from early voting. But as votes from Election Day itself were counted, Ossoff’s lead narrowed quickly. He went from having more than 70 percent of the vote to less than 50 percent as the night wore on — not enough to avoid a runoff race in June.Wasserman was also referring, though, to any number of other recent, similar examples. Perhaps the most infamous recent example was in Florida in November. The campaign of Democrat Hillary Clinton came into Election Day confident that it would carry the Sunshine State, given the dominance her campaign had shown in early voting. But, again, the Election Day tally worked against her, as detailed in a new book assessing how her campaign stumbled. A Florida win meant the presidency. An Election Day surge for Republican Donald Trump ended that dream.Those two examples aside, it’s worth considering Wasserman’s assessment more broadly. Are Georgia and Florida simply outliers? Is it the case more broadly that early voting tends to favor the Democrat in a race more heavily?Looking at last year, the answer is clearly “yes.”Not every state publishes election results broken out by the type of vote cast. At least six states do, though, and in five of those six, Clinton fared better in early voting than she did in votes cast on Election Day.The sole exception was Louisiana, but even there it was close. Clinton won 38.8 percent of the vote in early balloting, doing slightly better — 40.2 percent — on Nov. 8. Everywhere else, her margins were better beforehand. In Maryland, she did 15 points better in early voting. In Iowa, 17. In North Carolina, almost 10. In Georgia? Just over a percentage point.It can be hard to evaluate early voting compared to Election Day voting without specific numbers from the state, but we can estimate it. If we look at the number of early ballots returned by members of each party — data collected by Michael McDonald’s U.S. Election Project — and compare it to the actual results in the state, a similar pattern emerges. Looking only at ballots cast by members of the Democratic or Republican parties and comparing those to the margins of the vote for Clinton and Trump, in nearly every case the percent of ballots returned by Democrats in early voting was larger than the actual Clinton vote on Election Day — suggesting heavier support for Trump in votes cast Nov. 8.This is imprecise, of course. In West Virginia, for example, a lot of Democrats cast early ballots for Trump, which skews the results. And notice that this analysis would suggest that Clinton fared worse in early voting, while the actual state data shows that she didn’t. Still, the pattern matches Wasserman’s assumption. More Democrats voting early than the final results would indicate.There are several implications to this. One is that we’ll see a lot more election nights like the one in November and like Tuesday, with Democrats jumping out to an early lead, and Republicans eventually eating away at it. Humans are weird creatures, and we tend to view election night returns like a football game, in which one candidate or the other is waging a comeback. Of course, that’s not the case; the actual football analogy would be if referees simply released the score of the game in random one-point increments after it had ended.The more important implication is how it frames efforts to curtail early voting. If early voting is used more heavily by Democrats, it stands to reason that cutting early voting would reduce the number of Democrats who vote.Which itself explains another manifestation of partisan polarization: opposition to early voting efforts by Republicans.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/this-beltway-insider-is-in-charge-of-hiring-for-the-trump-administration-its-taking-awhile/2017/04/18/06febf20-1b08-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.4f8fc5d6c723
This Beltway insider is in charge of hiring for the Trump administration. It’s taking a while.John DeStefano, head of the office of presidential personnel, stands for a portrait in his office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By Lisa Rein   By Lisa Rein        April 19     Follow @ReinlwapoIf Johnny DeStefano applied for a job in the Trump administration, chances are pretty good that Johnny DeStefano wouldn’t hire him.DeStefano is the president’s official headhunter, responsible for filling up to 4,000 political jobs — about 500 of which are really important jobs — in a government that his boss promised to clear of the permanent class of capital insiders to drain the Washington swamp.So the ideal applicant wouldn’t have spent much of his career on Capitol Hill as DeStefano has, starting with a college internship. Or served as political director for former House speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio), who embodies the GOP establishment. Or raised money for House Republicans, then built a data operation used by the Republican National Committee.And yet this didn’t stop DeStefano, an amiable 38-year-old who grew up in Kansas City, Mo., from getting an under-the-radar role as someone to see in Trump world.In an interview at his corner office next to the White House, the director of presidential personnel brushes off suggestions that his mainstream political pedigree is a liability. Before Trump, everyone started somewhere, he says, sitting easily in a navy blue suit at the conference table where he asks people why they want to work for President Trump. The spacious digs are appointed with white marble floors, a black limestone fireplace and coffered ceiling 18 feet above him.“What I’m interested in now is, ‘Why do you want the job, and more specifically, why do you want to work for this administration?’ ” DeStefano says he asks candidates he interviews for jobs ranging from undersecretary of transportation to ambassador to the European Union.“What’s your vision? I want to know that myself,” he says. “I’m the person who’s vouching for them to the president of the United States.”He’s also struggling to fill critical jobs across a government still missing most of its senior leaders, a personnel roadblock caused by a slow start, screening delays, candidates turned off by a post-government lobbying ban — and the possibility that Trump doesn’t want to fill all of those posts.When the White House announced DeStefano’s appointment, the far-right blogosphere lit up in anger. “Those who hoisted the pirate flag and joined the Trump team when he was at 2 percent in the polls . . . must wonder what the devil is going on,” longtime conservative activist Richard Viguerie wrote, calling the choice a “major impediment” to Trump’s goals.And yet DeStefano has won over the “pirate” wing led by Stephen K. Bannon, Trump’s combative chief strategist.Bannon now calls DeStefano “just a huge piece of manpower” with a “very good sense of who could be a change agent and what are the key positions you have to fill and get filled right away.”DeStefano’s new post and ornate office are a long way from the Data Trust in downtown Washington, the Republican voter-data firm where he could wear flip flops and jeans to work while overseeing the team of 24 technology geeks he built to modernize the GOP’s voter files.He climbed the ladder of Washington politics the traditional way. The summer of his junior year at Saint Louis University, his uncle, a longtime Capitol Hill chief of staff, helped get him an internship with then-Rep. J.C. Watts (R-Okla.). After graduation, DeStefano got a job serving as liaison to outside conservative groups for the House Republican Conference, and when Democrats targeted Rep. Deborah Pryce in 2006, he went to Ohio to run her reelection campaign.The GOP lost the House — but Pryce squeaked by with a margin of 1,055 votes. Boehner took notice and hired DeStefano to help recruit Republicans to run for the House. Then as head of member services, DeStefano advised tea party members elected in 2010 on how to staff their offices.His surroundings notwithstanding, he retains a sense of minimalism, with almost-empty bookcases and a bare desk except for some stray papers and an empty tube of Airborne, the immune-system booster. It looks as though he hasn’t moved in. Friends say the sparse office shouldn’t be confused with disengagement: DeStefano is a strategic thinker with a radar for assessing people’s talents.“You’re not going to see pictures of Johnny in the Oval with President Trump,” says Brett Loper, the top policy aide to Boehner who is senior vice president of government affairs at American Express. “You might see a leftover dish that once contained ice cream. He’s not a flashy, let-me-show-off-my-relationships-in-Washington kind of guy.”But there are some small signs of his new prominence. The regular guy who seems most at home talking about his beloved Kansas City Royals signs job offers with a more formal version of his name: “John DeStefano.” This has led to ribbing from friends, including Boehner, who know him only as Johnny.Leaving behind the nickname only serves to reinforce that DeStefano is a player with considerable stroke — part facilitator, part closer. He’s the man bringing the president the names of candidates who must get Senate sign-off after Cabinet secretaries and a long line of senior White House aides have weighed in. The competing powers in the inner circle often can’t agree, and DeStefano nudges them to consensus or starts over.In a White House besieged by infighting, he tries to manage the chaos.“Johnny takes a lot of heat,” says Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, describing pressure that comes from above, below and from the calendar. “He’s calm, he’s patient and he has a good understanding of who’s in charge, meaning the president.”DeStefano finds himself firing back at naysayers who think that Trump is moving too slowly to staff the government. Bill Clinton had 100 people looking through résumés and Trump has 36. So what? Back then, they came in on paper. Now they’re emailed.“I think that doing it right is more important than doing it fast,” he says.Which makes sense coming from someone who didn’t aspire to the job he landed.Priebus, who got to know DeStefano when he was Republican National Committee chairman, called DeStefano two days before Christmas to ask him to come to New York the next day to meet the president-elect’s son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, at Trump Tower. DeStefano was getting ready to fly home to ask his girlfriend, Sarah Cascio, a property manager he met in Kansas City, to marry him.One problem: DeStefano hadn’t put on a suit in years. The ones in his closet were too snug. He squeezed into his best one, and has since seen a tailor.“Literally, this came out of the blue,” Boehner says. “You don’t have to wonder what you’re getting with Johnny. He brings stability.”He had no experience in executive searches before this. Most presidents have their personnel chiefs in place months before the election. He wasn’t on board until late January, after Trump’s transition team had dumped New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) and his lists of potential job candidates. The hiring operation was on life support.DeStefano and his team ensure that candidates pass the ultimate test in this administration: loyalty. (Never Trumpers or those who said something unflattering about the candidate on Twitter or Facebook are almost always disqualified.)“It’s my job if I see any daylight anywhere to make sure it’s dealt with before it gets to the president,” DeStefano says.He and his team are also the gatekeepers, culling thousands of résumés — the White House won’t say how many — in the personnel office’s database to create a list for lower-level posts that don’t require Senate confirmation. Few of the top jobs are filled from that list; instead they emerge from a more chaotic process by which an adviser, family member, senator or the vice president will hand DeStefano a name and tell him to take a look. He has to tell Cabinet secretaries when their picks aren’t going to fly with the White House.So where do you begin to hire 4,000 people who want to upend the federal government as we know it?For starters, this isn’t a spoils system.“There wasn’t a huge campaign,” DeStefano says. “This isn’t a Republican administration that came with thousands and thousands of folks who are expecting jobs.”They’re looking instead for people who have “driven change” in or out of government.He acknowledges that finding outsiders involves “a little bit more of a mix of recruitment and placement than I think most administrations have had,” but he calls it an “opportunity.”Hiring in the Trump White House can take unpredictable turns. After fast-food executive Andrew Puzder withdrew his nomination to be labor secretary in February, DeStefano had met with the president about potential replacements when Bannon came into the Oval Office with two of his own picks — one of whom was a former U.S. attorney from Miami who had interviewed for an agency general counsel job. The team immediately met with him, shifted gears, and Trump nominated Alexander Acosta for labor secretary.When Priebus called, DeStefano had been running Data Trust for four years. His friends say he doesn’t get enough credit for building up what was an anemic operation almost from scratch.“It was a place that was not functioning,” said Guy Harrison, who ran the House Republican fundraising arm with DeStefano as second-in command. “He’s really good at reforming from within.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/19/the-demos-went-down-to-georgia-what-the-special-election-says-about-donald-trump/?utm_term=.9704fc87dcea
The Demos went down to Georgia: What the special election says about Donald TrumpJon Ossoff, a Democratic candidate in Georgia's 6th Congressional District, will face Republican Karen Handel in a June 20 runoff, after winning the most votes in the April 18 special election but failing to reach the 50 percent threshold. (Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)President Trump wasted no time in claiming credit for a win in the special election in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District. Almost literally: Jon Ossoff, the Democrat who finished first in the contest, began speaking at his campaign event at 11:53 p.m. Eastern time. At 12:09 a.m., the president tweeted.Despite major outside money, FAKE media support and eleven Republican candidates, BIG "R" win with runoff in Georgia. Glad to be of help!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2017Trump’s “help” in the race consisted of six tweets (the first of which came this past weekend) and a robo-call in which he exhorted Republicans to “stop the super liberal Democrats.” At least, that’s all of the help he provided to Republicans. Trump also helped Ossoff implicitly with fundraising: The race quickly earned national attention as a referendum on Trump’s presidency, and Ossoff raised unheard-of sums of money as a result.In the end, Ossoff earned far more votes than any other candidate — but not enough to earn an outright majority, forcing a runoff in June. For Republicans, this was a relief, given that there was some speculation that Ossoff would hit the 50 percent mark Tuesday. Trump cagily positioned anything less than an Ossoff majority as a win for Republicans — and himself — but it’s safer to say that the party simply held off disaster.Supporters of Jon Ossoff wait for election returns Tuesday night in Atlanta. Ossoff is the Democratic candidate in the race for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District in a special election to replace Tom Price, who is now health and human services secretary. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)It’s certainly true that Georgia’s 6th Congressional District is more favorable territory than the Kansas 4th, where Democrats made a run at stealing a seat left vacant when Trump elevated Mike Pompeo to run the CIA. (The 6th is vacant because Trump tapped Tom Price to run the Department of Health and Human Services.) But it’s still a Republican-leaning district, as made obvious by Price’s 2016 victory — he won reelection by 23.2 percentage points — and the fact that Trump won the district, according to analysis from DailyKos. But Hillary Clinton, Trump’s Democatic presidential rival, did much better there than one might have expected, trailing Trump by only 1.5 points. If we compare the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index for the Georgia and Kansas seats with the 2016 results, the Kansas 4th is squarely in line with how you’d have expected Trump to fare (as indicated by the dashed trend line). The Georgia 6th isn’t; Clinton overperformed.The easy way to read this is that Trump is less popular in the district than you may have expected. As The Washington Post’s Robert Costa noted on Twitter, the Republican candidates who aligned themselves most closely with Trump fared poorly — and the eventual winner, Karen Handel, was “meh” about the president when Costa spoke with her.That played to Ossoff’s advantage. According to data compiled by the New York Times, Ossoff outperformed Clinton’s percentage of support in 159 of the 207 precincts in the district. The median margin by which he did better was 2.1 percentage points — in a lower-turnout election, but still. What’s more, Ossoff got a higher percentage of the vote in 102 precincts than Trump did — almost half — and the median margin by which he trailed Trump in those precincts was only 0.2 points. Overall, Daily Kos estimates that Trump got 48.3 percent of the vote in the Georgia 6th. Ossoff got 48.1 percent. That means that Trump’s trying to frame Ossoff’s results as a loss even though he did just about as well.Of course, the runoff will not include a third party, as the Trump-Clinton contest did. As it stands, Ossoff’s 48.1 percent is the vast majority of the vote for Democrats in the race, while Handel’s 19.8 percent is less than half of all of the Republican votes. That’s a big part of the reason that Democrats hoped for a knockout blow Tuesday. The consolidated GOP vote in the special election (among 11 candidates) was larger than the consolidated Democratic vote (among five). In total, Republicans won a majority of the votes cast.The dynamics change now, and Trump’s bravado will be put to the test. After all, Ossoff actually overperformed the polling, which had him at about 46 percent, according to FiveThirtyEight. An Emerson College poll from late last week put him at about 44 percent. This is a seat that Republicans should hold, if only because 80 percent of special elections don’t change hands between parties. But Trump’s relative unpopularity and the national focus on the seat make things complicated.On Wednesday morning, Trump called Handel to congratulate her. The question now is whether Trump will actually campaign for her, giving up a weekend at Mar-a-Lago to appear with her at a rally to encourage Republicans to turn out on her behalf. Or, really, the question is whether she’d even want him to do that. Setting aside questions of how the parties will fare in 2018, the question of the moment is if a Republican president is an asset or a liability to a Republican candidate in a Republican district, three months into his presidency.That, in a nutshell, answers one question about who won and who lost on Tuesday night.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republicans-avoided-calamity-in-this-months-two-special-elections-but-a-lot-more-peril-lies-ahead/2017/04/19/b4adbc54-247a-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.04aa8d6c18a6
Republicans avoided calamity in this month’s two special elections, but a lot more peril lies aheadDemocratic House candidate Jon Ossoff speaks to his supporters April 18 in Atlanta (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)By Paul Kane   By Paul Kane        April 19     Follow @pkcapitolRepublicans have emerged from two close-call elections rattled but not — yet — defeated, but with fresh, frightening evidence of the additional political peril that almost certainly lies ahead.Sure, they avoided the calamity of an outright loss in Tuesday’s special election in Georgia, advancing to a runoff race in two months to replace the new health secretary, Tom Price. And when lawmakers return next week, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s first order of business will be to swear in the newest House Republican, Ron Estes, after his special election win in Kansas last week.But both races gave Republicans a scare they never would have anticipated six months ago — and demonstrated that Democrats have galvanized the anti-Trump activism of the past three months into votes at the ballot box. Even though Democrats came up short in each race, these were seats way down the list of top Democratic targets. This was particularly true of the Estes race, in a district where Trump won by an overwhelming margin.Far richer targets await in the 2018 midterm elections.[Republicans avoid big loss by forcing runoff in Ga. House race](Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)And in the near term, Republicans find themselves facing the same task — figuring out how to fulfill President Trump’s agenda — that rallied Democrats in the first place.Democrats believe that Jon Ossoff’s performance, less than two points shy of the 50 percent threshold he needed to win outright, validated their emerging strategy of focusing on dozens of GOP seats in diverse, well-educated suburbs across the country in advance of next year’s elections. Price regularly won this seat north of Atlanta without breaking a sweat, but Trump won the region by just 1.5 percentage points last year.[For Republicans in Georgia’s 6th District, a delicate dance with Trump]That signaled a potential vulnerability for several dozen Republicans in similar suburban areas, many of whom, like Price, have regularly won reelection by wide margins. Almost all of these Republicans have never run for Congress with a Republican president in office.They are Republicans such as Reps. Lee Zeldin from Long Island and Ryan Costello from Philadelphia’s western suburbs, both elected in 2014, and Reps. Erik Paulsen from the Twin Cities suburbs and Leonard Lance of New Jersey, both elected in 2008. All four won reelection last November in a rout, with Lance’s 11-percentage-point win being the smallest margin of the four.Now they are all Democratic targets next year because of the suburban makeup of their districts. Previously they ran as independent checks against a Democratic president whose popularity wavered in those regions, but now they must choose sides — defend or distance themselves from Trump.“Even if he doesn’t hit 50 tonight, Ossoff is showing us the path to retaking the House. It runs through the Panera Breads of America,” Brian Fallon, a former adviser to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), wrote Tuesday on Twitter.Democrats need a net gain of 24 seats to reclaim the House majority, and Ossoff’s strong showing will heighten the attention on every decision made by Republicans in potential swing districts over the next 18 months.House Republicans have already backed off one attempt to pass Ryan’s plan to revise the 2010 Affordable Care Act, because of a revolt from conservatives and moderates. The House is midway through an 18-day break in which some Republicans have faced angry voters at town halls complaining that Ryan’s health-care plan would leave millions uninsured.Trump has been pushing for more negotiating and for a vote later this spring. The task was already an uphill fight. Now, after Kansas and Georgia, House Republicans may be even more anxious about voting on the controversial plan.If Republicans start believing their majority is imperiled, everything will grow more difficult. Each vote could bring more doubt from rank-and-file lawmakers wondering whether they are walking a plank toward defeat in the midterms.Legislative paralysis, in turn, could imperil Republican fortunes even more.Trump came into office with a sweeping prediction that he would win so much that the public would get tired of winning. Ryan spent last year waving his “Better Way” policy prescriptions, which he promised would become a reality under a Republican Congress and president.If Republicans don’t push through some parts of Trump’s agenda, they’ll have very little to show voters next year in their reelection bids.This is a new dilemma for Republicans. Since winning the House during the 2010 midterms, they have behaved as if their gerrymandered districts created a permanent majority. They pushed the U.S. treasury to the brink of default in 2011 yet lost only a few seats the following year; they forced a government shutdown in 2013, only to expand their majority in 2014 to its largest since the Great Depression.Fast-forward to this year, when, in the span of one week, Republicans needed a last-minute infusion of cash from conservative groups in Washington to prop up Estes and saw a nearly $5 million barrage of ads against Ossoff do nothing more than keep him from winning outright in a district that has been held by Republicans since 1979. Those GOP groups will probably spend that much and more between now and the June 20 runoff.Ali Lapp, president of a Democratic super PAC, the House Majority PAC, questioned whether, by the fall of 2018, the GOP would be “prepared to spend that much money in all districts this Republican.”Ossoff’s fate may not be the best determinant of whether they need to. Even if he loses in June, it might be a false positive.That’s what happened in June 2006, when Republicans poured all their resources into narrowly winning a special election to replace the imprisoned Randy “Duke” Cunningham. Democrats did the same in May 2010, eking out a win in a special election to replace the late John P. Murtha in western Pennsylvania.In each instance, the majority party claimed that the race showed they were well positioned for the midterm elections. In each instance, they were wrong: Democrats proceeded to lose the majority in 2010, and Republicans lost in 2006.The reality was that those special elections demonstrated only that the party in power had the wherewithal to win in a single head-to-head contest. When the general elections arrived, one side was trying to defend 60 or more vulnerable seats, while the minority had only a few at-risk districts to protect.Now, Republicans have to decide whether to keep pushing the big and bold plans on health care and an overhaul of the tax code — or whether to pull back the ambition in the hope for some narrower victories.Each path has its own level of vulnerability, as two straight close special elections have demonstrated.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/georgia-house-race-stokes-gop-identity-crisis--and-opportunity-for-democrats/2017/04/18/a2231a48-242f-11e7-b503-9d616bd5a305_story.html?utm_term=.6816df4832dc
Republicans avoid big loss by forcing runoff in Ga. House raceATLANTA —  Republicans avoided an embarrassing defeat in a House race in Atlanta’s conservative suburbs by forcing a runoff against Democrat Jon Ossoff, who captured the most votes with a groundswell of grass-roots activism and millions in donations fueled largely by antipathy to President Trump.Unofficial returns showed that Ossoff had earned less than 50 percent of the vote, the threshold needed to declare an outright victory. Instead, with 48.3 percent, Ossoff was headed to a runoff against Republican Karen Handel, a former Georgia secretary of state and the top GOP vote-getter in a special election to replace Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District.In a statement early Wednesday, Ossoff acknowledged that he had fallen short.“This is already a remarkable victory,” he said. “We defied the odds, shattered expectations, and now are ready to fight on and win in June.”Ossoff could find it difficult to sustain the momentum he witnessed this past week in a traditionally Republican district that has been in GOP hands since 1979. Although Handel had earned 19.7 percent of the vote with 88 percent of precincts reporting, in a runoff she is widely expected to rally Republican voters who had divided their votes among 11 GOP candidates in Tuesday’s race.Democratic candidate Jon Ossoff walks offstage after speaking to his supporters as votes continued to be counted in the House race for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District on Tuesday in Atlanta. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Just before midnight, at her election night party in Roswell, Handel thanked supporters and urged Republicans to unite. “Tomorrow we start the campaign anew,” she said.Ossoff took the stage at his own party, his voice hoarse. “We will be ready to fight on and win in June if it’s necessary,” Ossoff said. “Bring it on.”Handel’s showing was due to more than name recognition from her long tenure in state politics, which has included unsuccessful runs for governor and U.S. Senate. She also benefited from $1.3 million in support from Ending Spending, a conservative advocacy group aligned with the billionaire Ricketts family.National GOP groups, meanwhile, are readying new waves of television advertising.Democrats had hoped to upend the national political landscape with a stunning victory in this round of voting, rousing their demoralized party just five months after Trump won the White House and stoking a burgeoning anti-Trump movement across the country. Ahead of next year’s midterm elections, they saw an opportunity to raise expectations about possibly winning back majorities in Congress.Ossoff’s candidacy gave Democrats an exhilarating if brief taste of what it will be like to compete in a ruby-red district next year, when they have to win 24 seats to take back the House.Republicans, at war with each other as much as with Democrats, were aiming to escape with a reprieve in the turbulent age of Trump. Facing more battles to come in 2018, the contest gave them little clarity about the party’s ideological drift and how much it should be tethered to the president in the future.Supporters of Democratic candidate Jon Ossoff wait for election returns in the race for Georgia's 6th Congressional District in a special election to replace Tom Price, who is now the secretary of Health and Human Services on April 18, 2017 in Atlanta, Georgia. The winner of the race would fill a congressional seat that has been held by a Republican since the 1970s. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Trump quickly took credit for the likely runoff, tweeting after midnight: “Despite major outside money, FAKE media support and eleven Republican candidates, BIG “R” win with runoff in Georgia. Glad to be of help!”Many Democrats moved quickly to frame the energy around Ossoff’s bid as a damaging referendum on Trump as he nears the 100-day mark of a presidency so far defined by an early stumble on health-care legislation and a GOP split into bickering factions.Even as the campaigns waited for the count to finish, Ossoff’s team cast the incomplete results in a glowing light."While we await the final election results this evening, our first-place finish is a remarkable achievement that many said would never even happen,” said Ossoff campaign manager Keenan Pontoni. “It’s clear that Jon has incredible energy and support behind him that will only grow whether we win tonight or in June.”Per Georgia law, a runoff ballot would feature the two top finishers from the crowded nonpartisan primary, which was called after Price, who had represented the district since 2005, vacated the seat to join Trump’s Cabinet. The district is a bastion of white college-educated professionals and upscale shopping centers.Ossoff, 30, a former congressional staffer and political novice who catapulted to national notice, raised more than $8 million and drew heavy support from prominent Democrats and liberal organizers. They saw his campaign, as well as a special House election last week in Kansas where a Democrat narrowly lost, as symbolic battlegrounds for their recovering party.Trump personally intervened in the final days, which risked becoming a political squall. On Tuesday, he tweeted that Republicans “must get out today and VOTE in Georgia 6” and warned that “Dem Ossoff will raise your taxes” and is “very bad on crime.”White House officials, such as chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, paid close attention to the Georgia election, well aware of the implications for Trump’s political capital as the president attempts to jolt his agenda in the coming months.Trump continued to weigh in on the race in the late afternoon, pointing out in a tweet that Ossoff “doesn’t even live in the district.” Republicans, he implored at 4:38 p.m. Eastern, “get out and vote!”Ossoff acknowledged in a CNN interview that he lives with his girlfriend near Emory University, which is outside of the district.“I’ve been living with my girlfriend, Alisha, for 12 years now down by Emory University where she’s a full-time medical student,” Ossoff said. “As soon as she concludes her medical training, I’ll be 10 minutes back up the street in the district where I grew up.”CNN’s Alisyn Camerota, intrigued, then asked, “So when are you going to marry her?”“Well, I don’t want to give anything away,” Ossoff said. “I’ll give you a call when I have something to announce.”The clip was quickly picked up by news outlets. Looking ahead to a likely run-off, national Republicans seized on Ossoff’s statement as another example of his lack of roots in the district, a critique that has been made repeatedly against the Democrat throughout the campaign. The Drudge Report, a driver of conservative Web traffic, made the story its banner, knocking the “Dem Trump slayer” as an interloper.When asked Tuesday on Air Force One whether the Georgia race was a referendum on Trump’s first 100 days, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said, “I wouldn’t use the word referendum.”“I think [Trump] hopes to have a Republican elected to that seat, and hopefully it will be someone to follow in Tom Price’s footsteps and be a leader from that district,” Sanders told reporters.Earlier Tuesday, volunteers for Ossoff — mostly youthful, clad in blue T-shirts and carrying bundles of door-knocking materials — rushed excitedly around a low-slung campaign outpost in the Atlanta suburbs to stoke turnout.At Ossoff’s cramped phone bank in Chamblee, situated between dental offices and piled with doughnut boxes and campaign posters, his staffers joked that the tweets amounted to an in-kind contribution that would incite their party’s base to show up. Trump’s messages also reflected how this once sleepy race had landed at the center of the political universe.“The campaign has taken on a life of its own,” said Ossoff aide Alyssa Castillo, 20, who works in public relations for a distribution center in DeKalb County. “Whatever happens, this is the start of something bigger, that’s for sure.”Celia Henson, a stay-at-home mother from Decatur who identifies as an independent Democrat, said Tuesday night that Trump retains his support “from most people around here who like him since nothing he does seems to get him in trouble.”But more on-the-fence voters in the Atlanta suburbs, Henson said, have grown restless or uneasy about the president since his inauguration in January and since he has “kept tweeting.”“This is a district where people care about respect, people being respected and they don’t like how he acts,” she said.In the final, frantic hours of canvassing and phone calls, avoiding a runoff was the priority. “No run-off, vote for Ossoff,” read one poster at the Chamblee office.“Look at the map,” Tish Naghise, an Ossoff field organizer, said as she pointed to a green layout of the district on the wall. “Hillary Clinton came close to winning here, but you have to do really well in Chamblee and Tucker, do well in diverse areas, if you’re going to have a shot of competing throughout this whole area.”The Republican slate in the 6th District had been roiled in recent weeks by nerves about Trump and lingering internecine dramas over ideological purity and local loyalties. While some GOP candidates sought to align closely with Trump, others chose more cautious paths in an effort to navigate the president’s mixed popularity here.Republicans’ failure to pass their plan to overhaul the nation’s health-care system frustrated some suburban GOP voters about Trump’s effectiveness in cutting deals with lawmakers in Washington, as well as about the party’s promises.The National Republican Congressional Committee dispatched staffers to Georgia to boost turnout among core GOP voters amid those grumbles. The Congressional Leadership Fund, an outfit aligned with the House GOP, has spent more than $2 million on a spate of negative television spots about Ossoff.Several GOP candidates — Dan Moody, Bob Gray, Bruce LeVell, Amy Kremer — embraced Trump and cast themselves as his would-be allies in Washington. Others were supportive but not always enthusiastic, such as Handel and Judson Hill. One Republican, David Abroms, opposed the president. Most of the leading candidates bounced between those poles depending on the day or the latest controversy.[This cowboy-poet is trying to steal a Republican House seat in Montana]Republicans veered between wanting a typical party man to preferring a Trump-style hard-liner. In interviews, some voters genteelly tried to sidestep questions about loyalty to Trump, and the varying levels of support the President has seen from Republican candidates here in the 6th.“We didn’t support Karen based on who she supported for President,” said Allison Newman, a 42 year-old special education teacher, when asked why she and her husband supported Handel. “We supported Karen based on her track record, she’s ethical and she’s a good person.”Others said the Trump factor was paramount. “It’s important that he agrees with Trump on issues of trade and certain platforms of Trump’s campaign,” said Brendan Foy, 36, a volunteer for Gray who also served as a North Carolina field director last year for Trump. “I voted for him the same reasons Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania voted for him.”LeVell, an African American jeweler and former Trump campaign adviser, as well as Trump-aligned conservative activist Kremer, never gained traction in a Republican district that is not dominated by grass-roots nationalism. Abroms, who campaigned with anti-Trump independent Evan McMullin, also failed to land on the political map.Gray was seen by Republicans in recent days as having the best shot of outpacing Handel and making a runoff, since he began inching up in various eleventh-hour polls.At Gray’s campaign office in Johns Creek on Tuesday, his effort to tie himself to Trump was obvious. A massive poster of Vice President Pence greeted visitors at the office entrance. To the right, a yard sign from the Trump campaign was propped against a stack of “Gray for Congress” signs. In a conference room, a photo of the president gave a big thumbs-up to phone-banking volunteers.Brittany Evrard, 27, a volunteer for the Gray campaign, said Gray’s pro-Trump stance was “very much” part of what made up her mind.But by early Wednesday morning, Gray was stuck at 10 percent in the returns.Jonathan Lee Krohn in Johns Creek, Ga., contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/for-republicans-in-georgias-6th-district-a-delicate-dance-with-trump/2017/04/19/f5cd98ce-2481-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.9d814dfed000
For Republicans in Georgia’s 6th District, a delicate dance with TrumpDemocrat Jon Ossoff speaks to supporters after a special election for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District. Ossoff appears headed to a June runoff against Republican Karen Handel. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)By Jonathan Lee Krohn   By Jonathan Lee Krohn     April 19ROSWELL, Ga. —  In a tiny manager’s office at the back of the kitchen of an Italian family restaurant here, Republican Bob Gray explained that he never would have run for Congress if it weren’t for Donald Trump.“If this was any other year or we didn’t have the kind of president that we have, I would not have run,” Gray said. “I recognized if Trump is one thing, he is a disrupter. And if you want significant change, you need a leader who is able to disrupt.”Like Trump, Gray considers himself a disrupter. He’s a businessman, he said, whose only prior elected office was to the City Council of the Atlanta suburb of Johns Creek. Like Trump, he added, he was an outsider who wasn’t part of the establishment. Even his slogan was cribbed from Trump: “America First. Conservative Always.”That didn’t do much for Gray in Tuesday night’s special election in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, however.In a district Trump had carried by just 1.5 percentage points last year, Gray had banked on just enough pro-Trump Republicans to carry him into a runoff with Democrat Jon Ossoff. With the GOP vote split between 11 Republican candidates, it wasn’t an entirely wild idea, but as midnight approached on Tuesday, it became clear that it was just a fantasy.Karen Handel, a Republican candidate for Georgia's 6th Congressional District, appeared headed for a June runoff against Democrat Jon Ossoff after a special election on Tuesday. (David Goldman/AP)Instead, the evening would go to Karen Handel, who appeared headed to a runoff with Ossoff early Wednesday.For most Republican voters in the 6th District, Trump loyalty has become a matter of begrudging party loyalty. It’s a delicate dance, and Handel found a way to do it best.[Democrat Jon Ossoff appears headed to runoff in Ga. House race]She didn’t ape Trump’s slogan or paste photos of the president on her campaign headquarter walls or have supporters wave Trump signs at a campaign rally the way Gray did, but she paid lip service to the Trump agenda. She went so far as to list Trump’s border wall on her website as a key policy proposal, but she did it without actually mentioning the president by name.“Do I support the president? Absolutely,” she said in an interview. “But my job, if I have the privilege of being the next congressman, is not to be an extension of the White House. It is to be the best representative.”When more than half of unofficial returns had come in, Gray’s share of the vote was below 10 percent. Gray had been projected to get around 15 percent, within striking distance of Handel, the Republican front-runner. It didn’t happen.By then, Gray’s campaign manager, Tyler Jacobs, had moved from the “war room”— a single laptop surrounded by a black curtain — to the bar. Gray was preparing to make his remarks. His supporters seemed deflated.“I’m not ready to say it’s over yet,” Gray said, but he knew it was. And so did his supporters. So he implored them, “We’ve got to rally behind Karen Handel.”No one cheered; there was no applause for party unity. And why should there be? For at least some of Gray’s most hardcore supporters, they had supported him specifically because of his love for Trump.“He’s willing to support the president, and I voted for the president,” said Brittany Evrard, a 27 year-old substitute teacher from Fulton County who volunteered for both Trump and Gray.Handel might like Trump fine, supporters like Evrard figured, but she wasn’t like Gray. She wasn’t, as he’d say, a disrupter. But she was the choice of more 6th District Republicans than any other candidate.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/iranian-american-groups-testify-in-washington-seeking-new-ban-on-trump-travel-order/2017/04/18/65d31b20-23ca-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.666f7e4cfc5b
Iranian-American groups testify in Washington seeking new ban on Trump travel orderProtesters chant during a rally against travel ban at San Diego International Airport on March 6. (Sandy Huffaker/AFP/Getty Images)By Spencer S. Hsu   By Spencer S. Hsu        April 18Leaders of Iranian-American organizations asked a U.S. district court in Washington Tuesday to become the latest to order a nationwide halt to President Trump’s executive order banning new visas and immigration from six Muslim-majority countries.Testimony came on behalf of the largest ethnic group directly affected by the March 6 order, and was entered in one of a half-dozen challenges to the White House action watched closely by legal analysts.The lawsuit is unusual in that U.S. District Judge Tanya S. Chutkan of Washington allowed live testimony by individuals who allege they are harmed by the order, and because the case is on a fast-track, said Michigan University law professor Margo Schlanger, sponsor of the Civil Rights Litigation Clearinghouse that is tracking more than 80 related lawsuits.An order by a third U.S. trial judge to freeze the ban, if granted, would take direct effect only if similar decisions made March 15 by federal district judges in Hawaii and Maryland were overturned. However, the legal arguments raised by American immigrants from the Middle East’s most populous nation could play a role in a fight widely seen as destined for the U.S. Supreme Court.More Iranians received U.S. visas in 2015 than nationals from the other five countries on the list combined — Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Libya — or 57 percent of the total including Iraq, which was initially on the travel ban list but later dropped. Meanwhile, Iranian students accounted for about 80 percent of foreign students last year from the same countries, according to State Department data.Lawyers for the four suing groups — Pars Equality Center, the Iranian American Bar Association, National Iranian American Council, and Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans — said the success of the Iranian-American community is a national security asset, not a threat, as the U.S. seeks a more moderate Iran.Migration policy groups cited U.S. population surveys showing half of the estimated 1 million Iranian-Americans living in the United States work as professionals, many arriving after the 1979 Islamic revolution topped the U.S.-backed shah of Iran.The lawyers for the groups suing said they assembled 16 plaintiffs and statements from 25 people to show a range of people harmed by the White House ban and to overcome legal barriers to suing in federal court. They also asked the judge Tuesday to order a resumption of visa granting processes.The statements come from individuals who told the court they face barriers to travel for business and investment opportunities, attending the wedding and births of children, and schooling. They included accounts by students on visas, U.S. permanent residents awaiting reunification with family members, dual citizens, U.N.-approved and vetted refu­gee families and an Iranian resident with an approved nonimmigrant visa issued to researchers, professors and cultural exchange visitors.“The vast majority of our resources” have been diverted to educating the public “on this one issue, bar association president Babak Yousefzadeh, of San Francisco, testified during the two-hour hearing. “It frustrates the mission of the IABA,” he said, which is to educate and increase civic participation by Iranian-Americans and to communicate their concerns to government.Leila Golestaneh Austin, executive director of the alliance, echoed those claims, adding its members see a chilling effect on finding talent for their businesses, and have had to respond to a rise in hate crimes and postpone efforts such as a sports diplomacy initiative.Justice Department civil division attorney Daniel Schwei said that travel by members of the groups who are U.S. citizens and U.S. permanent residents is not restricted, that many of the plaintiff declarations predate the latest version of the order, and that groups’ assertions of “continuous harm” are inaccurate since the order has been stayed.The White House issued its March order rescinding and replacing a broader January travel ban that courts had rejected. Trump’s revised version suspended the U.S. refugee program for 120 days and halted for 90 days the issuance of new visas to people from the six countries.[Federal judges in Hawaii, Maryland, freeze President Trump’s new entry ban]Judges in cases brought by the state of Hawaii and refu­gee organizations based in Maryland who froze aspects of the most recent ban agreed the Trump order could be construed as unconstitutionally discriminating on religious grounds.By comparison, the Iranian-American case, brought by Iranian-American civil rights lawyer Cyrus Mehri and the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, draws on civil rights precedents directed at bias based on ethnicity and national origin.The case, which is being heard with another lawsuit brought by a Shi’a Muslim group and two Yemeni individuals, has flown under the radar compared with the Hawaii and Maryland cases, which were the first to prompt nationwide injunctions. But like the others, it is moving at an expedited pace.Justice Department officials said the court rulings are flawed both in reasoning and scope, and promised to continue to defend the executive order and the president’s lawful authority to protect the nation’s security.“For the past 30 years, every President has invoked his power to protect the Nation by suspending entry of categories of aliens. As a legal matter, this Order is no different,” department lawyers argued in the Washington case.Department lawyers unsuccessfully urged Chutkan not to allow Tuesday’s live testimony or Friday’s scheduled preliminary injunction hearing. The department lawyers told the court that they were not disputing the truthfulness and credibility of the plaintiff group’s leaders, only their legal import.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-makes-rare-trip-outside-washington-to-sell-his-america-first-agenda/2017/04/18/c30dd4a8-2445-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.04313475d7ac
Trump makes rare effort to sell his ‘America first’ agenda outside WashingtonAn American flag made of wrenches is displayed as President Trump speaks during an event at Snap-on headquarters in Kenosha, Wis., on April 18. (Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)By Abby Phillip   By Abby Phillip        April 18     Follow @abbydphillipKENOSHA, Wis. —  President Trump on Tuesday traded the gold drapery of the Oval Office for a backdrop of glittering American-made tools at a manufacturing company here, promising “bold new steps” to boost American workers and companies.For a president who has come to love the optics of an Oval Office signing ceremony and prefers to remain close to home, the event, held in a state he narrowly won in November, represented a change of scenery and strategy.By hitting the road, White House officials are seeking to reassure the president’s supporters that he will keep promises made during the campaign — following policy reversals that raised questions about whether the administration is moving away from its nationalistic agenda toward a more centrist approach.“We’re going to do everything in our power to make sure more products are stamped with those wonderful words ‘Made in the USA,’ ” Trump told the employees of the Kenosha-based tool manufacturer Snap-on. “We’re sending a powerful signal to the world. We’re going to protect our workers, defend our jobs and finally put America first.”Shortly afterward, Trump signed an executive order that will attempt to limit foreign workers coming to the United States by cracking down on fraud and abuse in a high-skilled visa program, fully enforce rules barring foreign contractors from bidding on federal contracts, and ensure that steel used in federal projects is melted and poured in the United States.Left unmentioned at Tuesday’s event was Trump’s history of manufacturing some of his company’s products overseas and hiring foreign workers at his properties. Several of his businesses, including golf clubs and his modeling agency, have also sought to use the visa program targeted by the order.Trump has rarely ventured far from the White House or his private properties as president, even to boost his agenda. Allies said that approach is a mistake and one that has kept him from fully capitalizing on the political support that put him in office.“Trump won because of states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania,” said Stephen Moore, a strategic partner at 32 Advisors who advised Trump on economic issues during the campaign. “Those voters took a gamble on him. If I were him, I’d be going back to those neighborhoods and towns all the time, because you dance with the one who brung you.”Trump won a narrow victory in Wisconsin — beating Hillary Clinton by 27,000 votes — in part by promising to bring back well-paying American jobs that had been leaving manufacturing states for decades. Experts warn many of those types of jobs will not return, but Trump’s attention to the issue won over voters. His victories in the industrial Midwest punctured a decades-long history of these states remaining solidly in the Democratic column.But even while Trump’s aides have warned resistant lawmakers in both parties that he will travel to their districts and pressure them to support his agenda, the president has not followed through on the threat.Even Tuesday’s event did not target any reticent congressional Republicans or Democrats — it was instead held in the district of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.).The visit did mark an opportunity for Trump to return to campaign mode and reiterate the big promises he made on the trail but has not delivered on since taking office.Although the executive order Trump signed Tuesday included a modest provision calling for his administration to review trade agreements with an eye toward making them fairer for American workers, Trump, apparently ad-libbing during his speech, said he is going to make “very big changes” to the North American Free Trade Agreement ,“or we are going to get rid of NAFTA for once and for all.”“We cannot continue like this,” he added.But last month, the Trump administration sent a draft letter to Congress that proposed making more-modest changes to the agreement than he promised during the campaign and on Tuesday.Trump also boasted that his administration has “accomplished more in the first 90 days” than any other in history, but much of his agenda has failed to advance in Congress and his proposed travel ban on six Muslim-majority countries has been blocked by the courts.The hits have taken a toll. A new Gallup poll released this week found that just 45 percent of Americans believe Trump will keep his promises, compared with 62 percent who said the same in February.Trump’s trip to Wisconsin was an attempt to maintain his appeal to the working-class voters who supported him in November.“There are a number of states that we want to visit and frankly to get outside of the Washington Beltway bubble to do some of these executive orders where we’re talking about American jobs,” said White House communications director Michael Dubke.This year, Trump traveled to Michigan — another normally Democratic state that he narrowly won — to promote a review of environmental fuel standards, an action supported by automakers. But few of the president’s trips have been dedicated to specific items on his agenda.Instead, Trump has participated in rallies that the White House has billed as “campaign events.”Even during the push for the Republicans’ health-care bill, Trump’s travel outside Washington featured campaign rallies in solidly red states such as Tennessee and Kentucky, and even then the push for the bill received only a passing mention.Democrats say that the trip to Wisconsin and the executive order Trump signed are window dressing for an administration that has otherwise done little to keep Trump’s promise of bringing back American jobs.“I don’t think we’ve gotten a single job in America because of what the president has done — including today,” said Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who urged Trump to support a bill backed by Democrats to use American steel and iron for infrastructure projects.“We’re giving him a path to actually produce jobs,” he added.On the normally quiet suburban streets on Kenosha, the fragility of Trump’s victory was on display. Dozens of demonstrators for and against the president clashed outside over his rhetoric about immigrants, Muslims and women.Helen Powell, 67, took a bus to down the street to try to catch a glimpse of Trump and view the spectacle of protesters gathered at the site of the president’s speech.She named “jobs” as the reason she voted for Trump after previously casting a ballot for Barack Obama.“And he’s got God in his life,” she added. “Hillary Clinton wasn’t going to help us at all.”She added, “She was going to get rid of all Christians, and she was going to bring in more Muslims.”Across the street, Dawn Wrath, who didn’t vote for Trump, walked over to the crowd with her daughter after taking the day off from work.Wrath, 41, said she has no problem with the president’s jobs message, “if it’s true.” But she said that isn’t the reason Wisconsinites voted for him.“I think it’s mainly racism,” she added.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/18/historically-democrats-have-a-1-in-5-chance-of-winning-the-georgia-or-any-special-election/?utm_term=.4d4f48413661
Historically, Democrats have a 1-in-5 chance of winning the Georgia (or any) special electionJon Ossoff, a Democrat, is one of 18 candidates for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District. (Kevin D. Liles/The Washington Post)When you think about it, it’s not all that surprising that most special elections for House seats result in the party that originally held the seat retaining control. After all, the voters are the same; if they wanted a Republican in the previous election, it makes sense that they would want a Republican when voting on some random Tuesday 15 months later. Special elections are special, happening at weird times and generally seeing weird electorates. But they generally turn out the same way.Smart Politics’s Eric Ostermeier looked at 378 special House elections that have been held since the 77th Congress in 1941. His analysis determined that 20.1 percent of those elections resulted in the seat changing hands between party. The other 79.9 percent of the time, the same party controlled the seat before and after the vote.Ostermeier also determined that the current stretch of 19 straight special-election wins by the incumbent party is tied for the longest since 1941. (The other 19-election stretch was from November 1953 to May 1959.) If Democrat Jon Ossoff can prevail in the race in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District on Tuesday, it would be the first seat to flip since a special election in November 2012.The data Ostermeier used for his analysis is proprietary, and historic House special election results are tricky to come by. (The House Clerk didn’t return our request for information by the time this article was published.) Wikipedia has a lengthy list of House special elections, though, allowing us to do some analysis.Of the 350 races since January 1917 on that list, slightly more seats were held by Democrats than Republicans — and Republicans were slightly more likely to flip the seat to their advantage.Overall, the seats changed hands at about the same rate as Ostermeier determined: 20.5 percent. There’s no particular pattern to when it happens, though there are clear droughts over time when there were either no special elections or no seats that flipped. In only four years (indicated below with gray bars) were there no special elections.The overall pattern? Twofold. Parties generally retain seats, but when they flip is fairly scattered.What does this tell us about Georgia? A Republican seat in a Republican district will usually be won by a Republican in a special election. But one-fifth of the time, it won’t.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/supreme-court-skeptical-about-secs-powers-of-disgorgement/2017/04/18/43756330-2460-11e7-bb9d-8cd6118e1409_story.html?utm_term=.043cf00ff660
Supreme Court skeptical about SEC’s powers of ‘disgorgement’The Supreme Court indicated Tuesday that the federal government does not have the wide power it claims in pursuing the ill-gotten profits of fraudulent behavior.Justices across the board were at least skeptical of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s claim that it is not bound by a five-year statute of limitations when it seeks “disgorgement,” or the return of profits made from illegal behavior.It is a popular tool for SEC lawyers, who took in more than $3 billion in disgorgement payments in 2015. Some was returned to victims, and some went in the federal treasury.Adam Unikowsky, a Washington lawyer representing Charles R. Kokesh, who has been convicted of federal securities fraud, said the government was claiming an open-ended ability to impose punishments. This latitude, Unikowsky said, even exceeds that for punishing terrible violent crimes.It seeks enforcement actions “based on conduct dating back forever, with no statute of limitations at all,” he said.He seemed to find a receptive audience, notably Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.Roberts quoted a predecessor, Chief Justice John Marshall, as saying it was “utterly repugnant to the genius of our laws to have a penalty remedy without limit.” Marshall was talking about a statute of limitations, Roberts said.“The concern, it seems to me, is multiplied when it’s not only no limitation but it’s something that the government kind of devised on its own,” he said.Justice Department lawyer Elaine J. Goldenberg, representing the SEC, disputed Roberts’s premise.Disgorgement is not a penalty, she said. “It remedies unjust enrichment and just takes the person back to where they would have been” had they not acted illegally.Kokesh is a Santa Fe, N.M., businessman who was convicted of misappropriating money from four investment companies he controlled from 1995 through 2006 and using the proceeds for a lavish lifestyle. A judge in 2015 ordered him to pay a $2.4 million civil penalty.But because the SEC has interpreted disgorgement to have no time restraint, the judge said Kokesh must also pay $35 million, the calculated amount of illegal profits dating back to the initiation of his illegal behavior.Federal law establishes a five-year statute of limitations on “enforcement of any civil fine, penalty or forfeiture.” But that does not apply to disgorgements, the SEC says.Federal courts are split on that question. If the five-year limit applies, Kokesh’s disgorgement would be reduced to about $5 million.Unikowsky said it was clear that the disgorgements were the same as a forfeiture — a turning over of ill-gotten gains — so the limitation applies.He received some pushback from Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Ginsburg noted that the SEC has been pursuing disgorgements for decades, so Congress could have intervened if it thought the agency was doing something wrong.But Unikowsky said it was only relatively recently that the commission had pursued profits from beyond the five-year limit.And when Goldenberg rose to defend the agency, Ginsburg said there was “kind of an unreality” to the government’s argument in this case, since Kokesh’s fine was relatively small compared with the amount of disgorgement.The newest justice, Neil M. Gorsuch, noted there was no law governing disgorgements, only the SEC’s regulations. Gorsuch, as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, expressed alarm about a growing administrative state and seemed to signal a belief that this was another example of an agency operating without congressional directive.“We’re just making it up,” he said.Goldenberg noted that it is not up to the SEC what wrongdoers pay. Judges decide the amounts and where the money goes, she said.But Roberts said that was not enough.“It does seem to me that we kind of have a special obligation to be concerned about how far back the government can go when it’s something that Congress did not address because it did not specify the remedy,” he said.The case is Kokesh v. SEC.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/18/the-many-ways-in-which-trumps-buy-american-mantra-is-hypocritical/?utm_term=.8c4eb8c54a4f
The many ways in which Trump’s ‘buy American’ mantra is hypocriticalDonald Trump announces his presidential candidacy in 2015. (Brendan McDermid/Reuters)President Trump is heading to Wisconsin on Tuesday to tour the manufacturing facility for Snap-On Tools and to sign an executive order billed as “Hire American, Buy American.” A preview of the order described to reporters Monday explains the contours of the second half of that title: Government agencies will be encouraged to give priority to American companies when awarding contracts, with a review of waivers and exemptions that allowed the use of foreign-made products.This is a remarkably hypocritical position for Trump to espouse, as it has been since the outset of his campaign. Why?Trump sold foreign-made products under his name for yearsIn a 2012 segment made famous in a Hillary Clinton ad last year, former CBS talk show host David Letterman confronted Trump on his clothing line.“Where are the shirts made?” Letterman asked. “Bangladesh.”“Well, it’s good,” Trump replies. “We employ people in Bangladesh. They have to work, too.”Trump’s affinity for producing his clothing line overseas is so well-established that even foreign leaders have used it to score points against him.Hey @realDonaldTrump, bringing jobs back to US – does that include your ties & shirts? #MadeInChina pic.twitter.com/e5SkBJC42b— Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) May 6, 2016Trump has defended this practice in the past. Last July, he told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos that he “bid out” production for his ties, but you have “companies over in different countries where they devalue their currency and they make it impossible for American companies to compete.” Earlier this week, Trump decided against formally labeling China — where many of his ties were made — as a currency manipulator.His daughter, now an unpaid White House staffer, continues to do soAn investigation by NBC News found that Ivanka Trump’s clothing line continues to bring in products made overseas.“Since Election Day,” NBC reported, “the apparel brand run by Trump’s daughter has imported 56 shipments of Ivanka Trump products from China and Singapore, part of a total of 215 shipments from Asia since Jan. 1, 2016.” Trump last month announced that she’d be taking a formal position with her father’s administration.After she introduced her father at the Republican National Convention in July, her company’s official Twitter account plugged the dress that she wore during that speech — a dress that was imported from an overseas manufacturer.On Tuesday, the Associated Press reported that Trump’s company had secured trademark protection from the Chinese government to sell products in that country. The trademarks were granted the same day that Trump and her father dined with the Chinese president.China has given the initial green light to 38 trademarks linked to President Trump, which would help protect his brand if the Trump Organization expands there in the future. (Reuters)Trump buys foreign products for his hotels and propertiesThere are some occasions in which buying foreign-made products is difficult to avoid. For example: television sets.“I buy television sets. I buy a tremendous amount of things there because we don’t make television sets anymore, folks,” Trump said during a speech in February 2016. “We’d like to make them. We used to make them. You remember Sylvania, RCA. But those days are gone.”PolitiFact looked at this claim and rated it true: There are televisions that are assembled in the United States from components made overseas, but none that are manufactured here.On other occasions, though, Trump has less of an excuse.In October, the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump buildings frequently used imported steel in their manufacture. Trump’s campaign blamed subcontractors for ordering cheaper foreign steel for the projects.(Trump has repeatedly trumpeted that his approval of the Keystone XL oil pipeline shortly after taking office included a mandate that pipeline projects use only American-manufactured steel. However, since the steel for the pipeline already has been purchased, that won’t apply to Keystone.)It’s not just the structure of Trump properties that use foreign-made products. Business Insider reported that the furnishings of the hotels — and even the toiletries — are also often sourced from foreign countries. Ice buckets from Thailand. Headboards from China. Slippers from Hong Kong. Shower gel from Italy.Trump and his family have consistently sought to hire foreign workersIt’s worth noting that even the “hire American” part of Trump’s executive order is hypocritical.We looked at the reliance of Trump properties on guest-worker visas last year. Since 2013, Trump properties including Mar-a-Lago, Trump Vineyards and Trump National Golf Club have sought to fill more than 500 positions with foreign workers under the H-2A visa program. In total, those positions would have earned almost $1 million a month in salary over their durations.In that same interview with ABC in July, Stephanopoulos questioned Trump’s use of foreign workers at Mar-a-Lago — a practice that continued even up to the month before Trump was elected.“Well, you know what? I don’t hire the people,” Trump replied. “But if you look at all the other places in Palm Beach, they’re all doing exactly the same thing. And you know why they’re doing that? You know why they’re doing that? Because you can’t get people, George.”In October, the unemployment rate in Palm Beach County, Fla., where Mar-a-Lago is located, was 5 percent.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/18/theres-no-sign-donald-trump-can-win-a-campaign-for-anyone-not-named-donald-trump/?utm_term=.d587a527fab5
There’s no sign Donald Trump can win a campaign for anyone not named Donald TrumpDonald Trump eats a pork chop on a stick while campaigning at the Iowa State Fair on Aug. 15, 2015, in Des Moines. (Win McNamee/Getty Images)From the very first day of the very first voting in the 2016 primary process, it was apparent that Donald Trump’s political success would depend far more on his ability to rile up supporters than on traditional political tools. You’ll remember that he was favored to win Iowa in February 2016, with the Selzer & Co. poll released shortly before the caucusing showed him up by five percentage points. He ended up losing by three — far more a reflection of Sen. Ted Cruz’s superior ground operation to turn out voters than any glitch in the polling itself. In the context of Trump’s campaign abilities, it can’t be repeated often enough: Trump is the first president in the modern era to win with less than half of the vote in both his party’s primary and the general election.[VIDEO: Trump’s plans for 2020: Trademark ‘Keep America Great!’]This is an important gap in Trump’s résumé for the simple reason that he has insisted that he will oust elected officials who defy him. He told Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) that he was “gonna come after” him if Meadows continued to balk at Trump’s health-care replacement. Perhaps recognizing that Trump’s threat was hollow, Meadows’s opposition, paired with that of other conservatives, tanked Trump’s legislation.Since that disaster for the administration, Trump has had two chances to flex his campaign muscles: a special House election in Kansas’s 4th Congressional District and one on Tuesday in Georgia’s 6th. Republican Ron Estes won the race in Kansas last week, replacing Mike Pompeo, whom Trump chose to run the CIA. In Georgia, Republicans are hoping simply to force a runoff race against Democrat Jon Ossoff, who has consolidated support from his party in a way that none of the numerous Republicans he faces has been able to do. That runoff, though, is likely to mean a contest between Ossoff and one of those Republicans — much more favorable turf for the party.The tight special election in the historically Republican northern suburbs of Atlanta started on April 18. First-time Democratic candidate Jon Ossoff is aiming to capture Georgia's 6th District from Republicans for the first time in nearly four decades. (Reuters)So what has Trump done to weigh in against Ossoff? Two of his favorite things: He has tweeted, and he has recorded his own voice.Over the past few days, Trump has tweeted five times about Ossoff’s race. In the first tweet, he criticized the race for becoming a media event. Then, he disparaged the “super Liberal Democrat” and declared that a runoff election “will be a win.” Ossoff, he said Tuesday morning, would be “a disaster in Congress” who would “raise your taxes” — by somehow overpowering the Republican majority.Those tweets have been retweeted about 51,000 times, combined. Twitter has proven to be an effective way for Trump to dominate media attention when he makes surprising pronouncements such as (falsely) accusing his predecessor of wiretapping his home. But these more anodyne political tweets don’t gin up the same level of interest and, given that only 21 percent of the adult population in the United States uses Twitter — skewing heavily toward younger Americans who are also less likely to turn out to vote — the odds that these tweets are motivating much of a response seems low.Trump also recorded a robo-call in the race — one of those prerecorded messages that gets pushed to your answering machine. In it, Trump encourages Republicans to vote, but without identifying a candidate. Instead, he exhorts voters to “stop the super liberal Democrats” and keep Ossoff from “flood[ing] our country with illegal immigrants.”In a race in which you’d expect the focus to be on Ossoff running against Trump, instead, it’s Trump running against Ossoff.Will it work? Robo-calls are cheap and easy, which is a key reason they’re popular in political campaigns. But there’s little evidence that they’re terribly effective. In the book “Get Out the Vote,” researchers Donald Green and Alan Gerber detail the utility of various voter-turnout tools. They say that robo-calls “might help you to stretch your resources in ways that allow you to contact the maximum number of people, but don’t expect to move them very much, if at all.” Multiple studies cited by Green and Gerber showed statistically insignificant effects on turnout — even when celebrities or the leader of the party were the ones leaving the message.What might Trump have done instead? The Georgia election is a weird one, with no anointed candidate for Trump to stand next to. What’s more, he won the district by only 1.5 points, according to Daily Kos — meaning that his popular appeal is limited. He certainly could have done an interview with a local television news station or approved a targeted piece of mail to conservative Republicans in the district. White House press secretary Sean Spicer could have invited a local reporter to ask a question remotely during a news briefing. There were ways for Trump to get involved without setting foot in Georgia that he appears not to have done, relying instead on his tweets and his voice.Not that he did anything more than that in Kansas either. Estes’s victory was a welcome one for Republicans, but it was far closer than might have been expected several months ago. Estes won the district by about seven points — but Trump won by 27. That was a place where Trump could have helped bolster the Republican more directly, by showing up on the ground for Estes. He didn’t. The weekend before the election, instead of heading to Kansas and holding a get-out-the-vote rally for his party’s nominee, he was at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida — and his nearby golf course. All Trump did to persuade voters in Estes’s district was to tweet — once — and record another robo-call.Ron Estes is running TODAY for Congress in the Great State of Kansas. A wonderful guy, I need his help on Healthcare & Tax Cuts (Reform).— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2017Estes’s victory was hardly the sort of thing for which Trump can take credit, given how little he did and how much worse Estes performed than he did. There’s little evidence that Trump knows how to sell anyone politically except for himself — a challenge that his predecessor also faced. President Barack Obama repeatedly tried to leverage his own popularity on behalf of other candidates, with the net effect of losing the House in 2010 and suffering humiliating losses in 2014. Oh, and, of course, seeing his preferred successor lose in stunning fashion in November.The difference between Obama and Trump in this regard seems simply to be that Obama was better at selling his candidacy than Trump was at selling Trump’s. In many places, perhaps including that district in Georgia, Trump doesn’t have popularity to leverage anyway. Meaning that if you’re a candidate wondering if you should rely on Trump to push you over the finish line — or if you’re wondering if he’ll stand in your way — you’d be forgiven for assuming that the president and his wan political outreach probably would be a non-factor.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/two-plaintiffs-join-suit-against-trump-alleging-breach-of-emoluments-clause/2017/04/17/1d4aaa70-238a-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.cd60d7bb8ca8
Two plaintiffs join suit against Trump, alleging breach of emoluments clauseTrump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. ( Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)By David A. Fahrenthold  and Jonathan O'Connell   By David A. Fahrenthold  and Jonathan O'Connell        April 17     Follow @Fahrenthold  Follow @OConnellPostBizTwo new plaintiffs — an association of restaurants and restaurant workers, and a woman who books banquet halls for two D.C. hotels — plan to join a lawsuit alleging that President Trump has violated the Constitution’s emoluments clause because his hotels and restaurants do business with foreign governments.The new plaintiffs will be added to the case on Tuesday morning, according to a spokesman for Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), a D.C.-based watchdog group.CREW had originally filed suit against Trump in federal court in January, alleging that — by continuing to own his business, which rents out hotel rooms and meeting spaces to other governments — Trump had violated the constitutional provision that bans “emoluments” from foreign powers.[Could lawsuits force Trump to give up his businesses?]Legal experts had said that the case faced a serious hurdle: It wasn’t clear that the watchdog group actually had standing to sue in the first place. What harm had it suffered, specifically, because of Trump’s actions?(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)The new plaintiffs are intended to offer an alternative answer to that question. Both say that, as direct competitors of Trump’s restaurants and hotels, they may lose foreign clients, who may book with Trump properties to curry favor with the president.“It’s damage to our members, both employers’ bottom lines, and workers’ loss of income and tips,” said Saru Jayaraman, co-director of Restaurant Opportunities Centers United.That group — a nonprofit association that says its members include more than 25,000 restaurant workers, 200-plus restaurants and thousands of people who eat in restaurants — trains restaurant workers and advocates for higher wages.The association was one of two plaintiffs added to the lawsuit Tuesday. Jayaraman could not cite a specific instance in which a member of the group had lost a client to a Trump business.But she said the potential for such a development is clear.“It’s not a free market, or a free country, when foreign governments feel like they have to eat and patronize Trump hotels and restaurants because he’s the president of the United States,” Jayaraman said. “I mean, that’s why the emoluments clause was written.”The other new plaintiff is Jill Phaneuf, who works for a hospitality company, booking events for two Washington hotels: the Carlyle Hotel near Dupont Circle and the Glover Park Hotel on Wisconsin Avenue NW.The two hotels themselves are not joining the lawsuit, the watchdog group said. Jordan Libowitz, a CREW spokesman, said that Phaneuf is a contractor who is paid on commissions that are tied to the gross receipts of the events she books. She joined the suit as an individual.“I joined this lawsuit because the president is taking business away from me and others with unfair business practices that violate the Constitution,” Phaneuf said in a written statement. She declined to comment when asked if she could cite an example where a Trump hotel had taken her business away.When The Washington Post asked the White House for comment, a spokeswoman directed the question to the Trump Organization. A Trump Organization spokeswoman said she could not comment before she had seen a copy of the new filing.The aim of the lawsuit is the same as before. The plaintiffs ask U.S. District Judge Ronnie Abrams in New York to order Trump to stop violating the emoluments clause, and to release financial records to prove it.The Constitution says that no person holding a federal office shall “accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.” It was inspired by fears that early American ambassadors might be corrupted by gifts from the countries where they were serving.The plaintiffs in this case say that, by the same logic, Trump’s loyalties might be bent by foreign governments paying for the hotel rooms and office space he owns.“This is ‘MOAC.’ The mother of all conflicts,” said Norm Eisen, a former ethics official in the Obama administration and a board member of CREW. “This is the one thing that we have in our power to do” to stop it, he said.In the past, Trump’s attorneys have said that the term “emolument” should not apply to transactions where foreign governments pay market rates for hotel rooms or banquet halls.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/hearing-first-arguments-as-member-of-the-supreme-court-gorsuch-jumps-right-in/2017/04/17/96856404-2392-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.42ff5e754227
Hearing first arguments as member of the Supreme Court, Gorsuch jumps right inNeil M. Gorsuch, shown at a Senate confirmation hearing, was an active participant in his first session as a Supreme Court justice. (Ricky Carioti/The Washington Post)By Robert Barnes   By Robert Barnes        April 17     Follow @scotusreporterNew Justice Neil M. Gorsuch was an active, aggressive and somewhat long-winded questioner in his debut Monday at the Supreme Court, making his presence known during a series of complicated cases about legal procedures.Gorsuch waited barely 10 minutes into the first of three hour-long cases before kicking off what became a long chain of questions. There is no expectation at the high court that new justices are to be seen and not heard, but the 49-year-old rookie seemed to push the envelope a bit.[Neil Gorsuch sworn in as nation’s 113th Supreme Court justice]Gorsuch asked more questions at his first oral argument — 22 — than did any of his fellow justices at their first appearances, according to Adam Feldman, a scholar who studies all things empirical about the Supreme Court. Before Monday, Justice Sonia Sotomayor had been the leader with 15 questions.And, according to Feldman’s count, Gorsuch was wordier than all of his colleagues during their first time out, save for Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Elena Kagan, who had joined the court after representing the government there as its chief lawyer.(Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post)In short order, Gorsuch showed he could be polite and still deliver a jab reminiscent of the justice he replaced, the late Antonin Scalia.At one point, Christopher Landau, a Washington lawyer representing a former federal worker trying to navigate a complicated law governing grievance procedures, said, “We’re not asking this court to break any new ground.”“No, just to continue to make it up,” Gorsuch shot back with a grin, indicating he believed previous court decisions had strayed from the text of the law.As Gorsuch first emerged from behind the court’s maroon velvet curtains with his colleagues, he seemed to pause for a moment to take in the scene. His silver hair looking recently trimmed, and he wore a dark red tie under his black robe.He shared a laugh with his seatmate, Sotomayor, and sat ramrod straight in his high-backed chair all the way to Roberts’s left. He rarely stopped smiling.At the start of the day’s proceedings, the chief justice welcomed Gorsuch, nominated by President Trump to fill the seat left vacant by Scalia’s death in February 2016. Senate Republicans had refused to hold hearings for President Barack Obama’s nominee for the seat, Judge Merrick Garland.Gorsuch returns the court to its previous composition of five generally conservative Republican-nominated justices and four consistent liberals nominated by Democrats.How Gorsuch’s judicial experience compares with his Supreme Court predecessors  View GraphicHow Gorsuch’s judicial experience compares with his Supreme Court predecessors[President Trump made his choice, but it’s still Kennedy’s court]“Justice Gorsuch, we wish you a long and happy career in our common calling,” Roberts said.Gorsuch responded: “Thank you very much, chief justice, and thank you to each of my new colleagues for the very warm welcome I’ve received this last week. I appreciate it greatly.”Gorsuch skipped last week’s private conference, where justices consider which cases to accept and reject, so he could bone up on the cases the court is hearing this week and next, its last oral arguments of the current term, which ends in June.The second case of the day, Town of Chester, N.Y., v. Laroe Estates, was another complicated matter involving when a development company can intervene in a lawsuit brought by a landowner against a local government.Like a front-row law student, Gorsuch flaunted the details.“That’s his complaint, page 122 of the Joint Appendix,” he told Washington lawyer Shay Dvoret­zky, who represented Laroe. “Your client, page 162, wants damages for itself.”Gorsuch was confident and seemed not the least bit self-conscious as he questioned attorneys. He stressed, as he had at his confirmation hearings, that the text of the law would matter more to him than whether it resulted in outcomes that might not be what Congress had intended.“Wouldn’t it be a lot easier if we just followed the plain text of the statute?” he asked Brian H. Fletcher, the Justice Department lawyer representing the government in the civil service case Perry v. Merit Systems Protection Board. “What am I missing?”His new colleagues partly provided the answer.Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said the case was “unbelievably complicated” and drew laughter from the courtroom spectators when he speculated that the person who wrote the law must be “somebody who takes pleasure out of pulling the wings off flies.”Alito added; “The one thing about this case that seems perfectly clear to me is that nobody who is not a lawyer, and no ordinary lawyer, could read these statutes and figure out what they are supposed to do.”One lawyer Gorsuch listened to but did not question was the attorney representing the town of Chester, Neal K. Katyal, a former acting solicitor general in the Obama administration. Katyal, who has an active practice before the Supreme Court, testified on Gorsuch’s behalf at the judge’s Senate confirmation hearing and was frequently invoked by Gorsuch’s supporters because of a New York Times op-ed he wrote titled “Why Liberals Should Back Neil Gorsuch.”[Lawyer introducing Gorsuch at hearing is suing Trump over travel ban]Some were watching to see if Gorsuch might recuse himself; he had routinely done so as a member of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit when his former law firm had a case there or a controversy involved someone he knew.But in the appeals courts, another judge can take the place of a recused colleague. There can be no replacement at the Supreme Court. And justices routinely hear cases involving lawyers with whom they once worked or are friends. Katyal, for instance, was deputy solicitor general when Kagan ran the office under Obama.Gorsuch at times seemed sensitive about asking so many questions on his first outing.“I’m sorry for taking up so much time, I apologize,” he said. “My last question.”But it wasn’t.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/georgia-house-race-stokes-gop-identity-crisis--and-opportunity-for-democrats/2017/04/17/c65ba43a-23b6-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.517ff9f8f27c
Georgia House race stokes GOP identity crisis — and opportunity for DemocratsDemocrat Jon Ossoff speaks to volunteers and supporters at a campaign office in suburban Atlanta. He leads some polls in the special election to replace former congressman Tom Price, who is now secretary of health and human services. (Joe Raedle/Getty Images)By Robert Costa   By Robert Costa        April 17     Follow @costareportsCHAMBLEE, Ga. —  Republicans had hoped Tuesday’s special election in Georgia’s wealthy and sleepy 6th Congressional District would be just like every other House race here since 1978: the mostly painless elevation of a rock-ribbed and polished conservative.Those hopes have died. Now, this suburban swath north of Atlanta resembles the cracked mirror of the GOP’s national identity crisis, with 11 candidates bitterly feuding over what it means to be a Republican in the age of President Trump.That crowded field is roiled by nerves about Trump and lingering internecine dramas over ideological purity. And with next year’s midterm elections beginning to take shape, the race’s currents could reverberate far beyond the white college-educated professionals along Interstate 285, regardless of which candidate emerges from the scrum Tuesday.“You’ve got a miniature civil war going on there,” said Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), an ally of House GOP leaders. “We’re all paying attention, since anything can happen in a special.”The splintered GOP has raised the possibility that the leading Democratic candidate, 30-year-old former congressional staffer Jon Ossoff, could win Tuesday’s election outright with more than 50 percent of the vote, thus claiming an open House seat previously held by Trump’s health and human services secretary, Tom Price.Trump — who barely won this district last year and tweeted Monday that the media coverage of the race was a “game” and “BAD!” — is eager to stave off a Republican stumble that could become an ominous bellwether of his standing as he attempts to build support in the coming weeks for the big-ticket legislative items that have eluded him in the GOP-controlled Congress during the early months of his presidency.[Two Republican lawmakers face anger, from their own voters, on health care]If Ossoff places first or second with support in the mid-40 percent range among the 18 total candidates — surveys show that scenario as most likely — he will face a tougher matchup this summer, when many of the warring Republicans would almost certainly coalesce to save the seat.Georgia’s election law initially piles candidates of all stripes onto a single ballot. If no one wins a majority, the two top finishers move on to a head-to-head contest months later.“Having 11 people on our side is like eating our young,” Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.), a friend of Trump, said in an interview Monday. He compared the infighting to the “nightmare” of his own 2014 statewide primary and added: “You risk letting the Democrat slide through without a runoff. But I don’t think that will happen if we get the turnout.”Democratic congressional leaders and liberals from around the country have rallied for Ossoff as Republicans have clawed at one another, contributing millions to his insurgent bid and watching him soar to the top of several polls — and salivating at the prospect of picking up a seat that hasn’t gone blue since Georgia’s own Jimmy Carter occupied the Oval Office.Trump has become a complicated figure in establishment Republican enclaves such as Chamblee, which boasts a tony shopping center with a gourmet doughnut shop and a sleek Mexican restaurant whose patio is packed in the evenings with 30-something couples. Passing through the leafy neighborhood on a warm Monday afternoon, one sees a slew of navy-blue Ossoff signs dotting sidewalks and apartment windows.Republicans’ failure to pass their plan to overhaul the nation’s health-care system has sown doubts among some suburban GOP voters about Trump’s effectiveness in cutting deals with lawmakers in Washington, as well as the party’s promises. The health-care episode has particular resonance in this district since Price, a physician, was its representative from 2005 until February, when he joined the Cabinet.Cole said the National Republican Congressional Committee, which he formerly chaired, has dispatched staffers to Georgia to stoke turnout among core GOP voters amid those grumbles. The Congressional Leadership Fund, an outfit aligned with the House GOP, has spent more than $2 million on a spate of negative television spots about Ossoff.[This cowboy-poet is trying to steal a Republican House seat in Montana]At the White House, an official said, the president is paying close attention and has been briefed by aides about the race. Political director Bill Stepien is working with the state party and the congressional committees. Chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon is involved in discussions about how to encourage Republican turnout.But Trump’s pugilism and lack of a cohesive conservative worldview on fiscal and foreign policy have confounded Republicans here. Previous holders of the seat have included a mainstream, business-friendly Republican, Sen. Johnny Isakson, and a stridently ideological conservative, former House speaker Newt Gingrich.The district is “a little bit of an oddity,” said Ralph Reed, a conservative leader and longtime strategist in both Georgia and national Republican circles. “Just in its socioeconomic profile, it doesn’t really lay out as Trump country. It’s highly educated, upscale, suburban, and Trump country tends to be more rural to exurban, more high school or only some college.”The way the Republican contenders are handling Trump and the concurrent rise of populism and moderate angst in the wake of his victory is revealing, even though the names of the near-dozen candidates are unfamiliar. Everyone seems to be laboring, with varying success, to figure out a pitch that pulls together the fractured GOP ranks.Interactions with Trump’s political brand have veered from hearty embrace (Dan Moody, Bob Gray, Bruce LeVell, Amy Kremer) to support but not always rah-rah (Karen Handel, Judson Hill) to flat-out defiance (David Abroms). Most of the leading candidates have bounced between those poles depending on the day or the latest controversy.Handel, a favorite of antiabortion activists who has the highest name recognition and once served as Georgia’s secretary of state, said in an interview Monday that she is concentrating on doing her “level best to represent the interests of the 6th District” in her positions rather than linking arms with Trump.“Obviously I’m a Republican and support the president,” Handel said. “But being in Congress is not the same as being an extension of the White House. I’m more than willing to step up and speak out when the circumstances demand that. . . . People want a doer — someone they trust who can move our party from vocal opposition to governing.”Endorsements from prominent Republican players have been scattered to the point of muddying the field. Perdue has backed Moody. Gingrich supports Hill, as does Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.). Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski endorsed LeVell. Former senator Saxby Chambliss is for Handel. But the conservative Club for Growth has opposed Handel and boosted Gray. To counter the club, the Ending Spending advocacy group, which is backed by the billionaire Ricketts family, has poured millions behind Handel’s candidacy.It goes on and on like that further down the line in the state. One group or officeholder goes for Handel, another goes for Gray, another jumps in for Moody or Hill, and Trump supporters of different degrees poke and prod one another on social media.Unsurprisingly, no one has caught fire, and constant squabbling has remained the thrust of the GOP race. As Ossoff’s candidacy has exploded on the left — landing on the cover of New York magazine, raising more than $8 million, and attracting the support of actors such as Samuel L. Jackson and bloggers at ­MoveOn.org and Daily Kos — the Republicans have hovered below 20 percent in most polls.“We’ve got a shot at an upset,” Rep. Charlie Crist (D-Fla.) said. “It’s like what we’re seeing all around, this backlash. The protests, the marches. Democrats want to make a statement.”As they did in a special House election last week in Kansas, where Republicans narrowly won a seat that has long been safely GOP, Democrats see, if not a chance at victory, at least a chance to rattle Trump and Republicans as they look toward 2018 and the possibility of winning back the chamber. The surge in early voting here has only raised expectations that Ossoff could hit 50 percent Tuesday or do well in a runoff, which would be held June 20 if needed.Trump signaled in a tweet Monday how Republicans would define Ossoff in a runoff election: “The super Liberal Democrat in the Georgia Congressioal [sic] race tomorrow wants to protect criminals, allow illegal immigration and raise taxes!”Ossoff replied in a statement: “While I’m glad the president is interested in the race, he is misinformed.”An Emerson College survey released late last week showed Ossoff with 43 percent. Handel garnered 17 percent, Gray — a former local councilman and businessman — 15 percent and Moody — a former state senator — 9 percent. Hill, another former state senator, was at 6 percent.LeVell, an African American jeweler and former Trump campaign adviser, as well as Trump-aligned conservative activist Kremer, have struggled, perhaps showing the difficulty of being a die-hard Trump supporter in a Republican district that’s not dominated by grass-roots nationalism. Abroms, who has campaigned with anti-Trump independent Evan McMullin, has also found it hard to get on the political map.Perdue, who has worked closely with the Trump White House, said he is confident that despite the bloodletting among Republicans, a runoff election would end favorably since this “district is a traditionally 60-40 Republican district, and we really don’t want to give a vote to Nancy Pelosi,” the House Democratic leader.But Perdue acknowledged that his party is still figuring things out. “It’s a democracy,” he said wryly of the clashing Republicans. One upside to the fracas, he volunteered, is that “our candidates are not coached like the Democrats.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/17/people-are-googling-world-war-3-more-than-ever-but-not-world-war-three/?utm_term=.61fc19ad9b75
People are Googling ‘World War 3’ more than ever — but not ‘World War Three’A slew of news sites ran with an intriguing story over the weekend, pegged to heightened tensions between the United States and North Korea. Americans, it seems, have responded to the increased threat of nuclear war by heading to Google to see what exactly such a conflict would mean.Or, put more tersely, Americans are suddenly Googling “World War 3” far more than they used to. Using data from Google Trends, we can see how interest in the term has spiked.But that search includes only searches for “World War 3” — not searches for “World War III” or “World War Three.” Searches for that latter term look different, peaking in July 2006.(Why did searches for the term peak that summer? Because Newt Gingrich declared that the fight against terrorism constituted the Third World War.)What’s more, this includes results for the entire phrase. If you search for World War Three, without quotes, the results are cyclical, peaking every spring at about this time.The reason for that is simple: It’s when kids in school take up the subject of the world wars in history class.If we consider searches for the Second World War, we see the same pattern. Over the course of the school year, those searches increase, generally peaking in the spring.We notice something else, too. While “World War II” and “World War 2” used to be searched with about the same regularity, since 2009 or so, people look up “World War 2” much more than they do “World War II.”That carries over into those searches about the new world war. Over the past month, when interest in the term spiked, the number of searches for “World War 3” far outpaced searches for “World War Three” or “World War III.”However, those searches demand additional context. Compared with searches for one of the most popular search terms on Google — “Donald Trump” — searches about “World War 3” are relatively small.Incidentally, not all of the searches about “World War 3” are a function of Trump. You may notice a spike in late 2015, as well. That’s when the hip-hop artist Gucci Mane released the album “World War 3,” which continues to work its way into searches for the term.People are certainly more worried about the threat of nuclear war than they were when that album came out. But it’s certainly worth remembering that what people search for doesn’t always tell us everything about what they’re thinking.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/17/control-of-congress-aside-americans-view-the-gop-as-the-more-divided-party/?utm_term=.6da1869f3048
Control of Congress aside, Americans view the GOP as the more divided partyHouse Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.). (Win McNamee/Getty Images)Theoretically, the Republican Party has free rein to do what it wants in Washington. With a strong majority in the House, a majority in the Senate (plus a willingness to reconsider the filibuster) and control of the White House, this should be a moment in which the GOP can reshape the country.When the party tried to follow through on a long-standing commitment to that end, though, it failed. The GOP’s effort to replace the Affordable Care Act was undercut by a split in the party, with hard-right conservatives opposing the replacement bill for one reason and moderate Republicans opposing it for another. That rift helped doom the measure, which has been tabled for nearly a month.House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) spoke about the decision to withdraw the GOP health-care plan on March 24. "We're going to be living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future," he said. (The Washington Post)During the 2016 election, there was a lot of opining on the extent to which either party would be able to heal its internal rifts in the aftermath of the fiercely contested primaries. The gap between Democrats who supported Sen. Bernie Sanders and those who backed Hillary Clinton seemed, especially after Clinton’s election loss, as if it might be a more significant long-term problem than a Republican Party that stood behind Donald Trump to push him over the finish line in November.Now, though, Americans see the split in the GOP as much more significant than that on the left.New polling from the Pew Research Center shows that Americans are about as likely to say that the Democratic Party is mostly united in its vision for the future and on the issues as they are to say that the party is mostly divided. Two-thirds, though, say the Republican Party is mostly divided.Republicans generally see both parties as about equally divided. Democrats, though, see their own party as generally united, with 58 percent saying so. Fully 80 percent of Democrats say the Republican Party is mostly divided.Interestingly, there’s no significant difference between Democrats who identify as liberal and those who identify as moderate in how unified they think their party is. But among Republicans, moderates are far more likely to say their party is divided, while conservatives are about split on the question.Part of this probably stems from the Democrats’ position as the party out of power. Nothing unifies a political group like having to fight to reclaim lost ground. But part of it certainly follows from the very real split in the Republican Party that has been apparent since the tea party revolution early in President Barack Obama’s first term. The conservative bloc in the House has been giving the party’s leadership aneurysms since well before the vote to replace Obamacare, and, now that the party is in power in both the executive and legislative branches, that rift will become that much more important.A final note to Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez: You probably shouldn’t rest on your laurels. Nearly 4 in 10 Democrats think their party is divided, almost certainly driven heavily by the same split that was obvious in the Sanders-Clinton fight. The party viewing itself as unified is one thing. The party actually regaining power is another.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/17/trump-has-spent-one-out-of-every-five-minutes-of-his-presidency-in-palm-beach/?utm_term=.5d7d8f8de10c
Trump has spent one out of every five minutes of his presidency in Palm BeachPresident Trump and first lady Melania Trump welcome Chinese President Xi Jinping and first lady Peng Liyuan at Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., on April 6. (Carlos Barria/Reuters)Before hosting the annual Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House on Monday, President Trump had another traditional Easter event to attend: the annual Easter egg hunt at Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Palm Beach, Fla. On Sunday, the president and first lady Melania Trump attended the private event at the club while the reporter assigned to cover the president for the White House press corps waited in the parking lot. (The only indication of who attended was offered by the cars that arrived for the event: “a cavalcade of luxury vehicles, including Rolls Royce, Bentley, Ferrari, Maserati, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, BMW, Porsche, Land Rover, Jaguar, Tesla, and Cadillac,” according to the pool reporter.)Stephanie Grisham of the first lady’s office tweeted a photo of the Mar-a-Lago grounds — one of the few looks the public might get at the event (though the Palm Beach Post has a few others).Happy #Easter to all of you!! pic.twitter.com/VHS2kRFBDz— Stephanie (@OMGrisham) April 16, 2017Why was Trump at Mar-a-Lago on Sunday? Quite simply, because he’s usually there on the weekend. On seven of the 13 weekends he has been president, he has spent time at the resort, usually slipping away from Mar-a-Lago to head to one of his nearby golf courses to play a round. That includes each of the past two weekends, when he arrived on Thursday and stayed through most of Sunday.Note that this doesn’t include the time spent on Air Force One getting to Palm Beach: This is solely time once the plane lands in Palm Beach or departs from there. (We did, however, include Trump’s visit to his golf club in Jupiter, Fla. on Feb. 11.)Trump’s taken to calling Mar-a-Lago the “winter White House” or “southern White House,” clearly in part to give the impression that his time at the facility is spent on presidential business. Often, his time there is spent on leisure, of course — but also occasionally on bolstering the commercial value of the property, however indirectly. There’s no discernible presidential value in attending the annual Easter egg hunt, of course, much less any of the various events he has been photographed popping into over the past few months. There is a clear value to Mar-a-Lago, though.The Washington Post's Jenna Johnson and Aaron Blake explain why President Trump spends so much time at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, and how he uses it as a second White House. (Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post)If we tally the time spent in Palm Beach (at Mar-a-Lago and his golf clubs nearby) rounded to the half-hour since he was inaugurated and through noon on Monday, Trump has spent about one out of every five minutes of his presidency at the “winter White House” — 424.5 hours there and 1,663.5 hours everywhere else, including on Air Force One headed to Mar-a-Lago. (That trip takes about an hour-and-a-half, so that’s an additional 21 hours spent flying there and back.)In other words, there’s a very real sense in which Trump is splitting his time between two jobs: serving as president of the United States and acting as owner/host of Mar-a-Lago. In some cases, those roles overlap, such as when he introduced Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to a couple having their wedding at the resort. Of course, the attention that follows the president also now encompasses Trump’s property. Not just from the media: After all, a staffer for the first lady tweeted a photo of a private Mar-a-Lago event.It’s not yet clear whether Trump plans to travel to Palm Beach again this week. But if the existing pattern holds, he’ll go on any two of the next four days.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/17/confidence-that-trump-will-keep-his-promises-sinks-but-theres-only-one-group-he-needs-to-worry-about/?utm_term=.b6344260c804
Confidence that Trump will keep his promises sinks — but there’s only one group he needs to worry aboutRepublican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a rally March 1, 2016, in Louisville. (John Bazemore/AP)It was always fairly obvious that much of President Trump’s campaign rhetoric was composed on the fly, often in real-time focus-grouping before enthusiastic audiences. The progressive website ThinkProgress tallied 663 distinct campaign pledges ranging from the familiar — build the wall — to the esoteric: “I will do a better job with the military, I will do a better job with jobs.”Overlaid with Trump’s famous apathy toward doing his homework, those ad hoc commitments are starting to crumble in the face of political realities. He’s recently abandoned a number of his consistent campaign pledges, such as his insistence that China should be labeled a currency manipulator. The lucky thing for Trump is that his supporters were never rallying to his cause as a function of their strong views on currency manipulation, suggesting that such wavering may not cost Trump politically. New polling from Gallup, though, paints a more complex picture.The polling firm has asked respondents regularly about their views of Trump’s personal characteristics. On no measure has Trump seen a steeper decline than on the question of whether he’s someone who keeps his campaign promises.As Gallup notes, that’s probably in part a function of when the polling was conducted. The February poll that set the benchmark came after Trump’s initial executive orders pledging — however effectively — to enact his big-ticket priorities like the ban on immigration and expulsion of those here illegally.But that decline is weighted heavily to those who already generally disliked Trump. If we compare the decline among groups to exit polling from the 2016 election, there’s a clear link: Those more likely to have voted for Hillary Clinton also saw bigger dips in how much they thought Trump upheld his promises.(Since Gallup approval polling and exit polls conducted by Edison Media Research use different age groupings than this Gallup poll, we’re comparing 18-to-34-year-olds in the personality trait polling with 18-to-29-year-olds in exit polling. Likewise, we’re comparing the 55-plus age bracket with those 65-plus in exit polls.)Bear in mind that, by itself, “Trump keeps his promises” is fairly politically neutral: If you hate his promised policy moves, you can still think he will actually uphold them. The decline in the number of liberals who think Trump will keep his promises would probably be relieved to say so.What I’d like you to pay attention to, though, is closer to the middle of that graph: the independents.No group that backed Trump in the 2016 election saw a bigger dip in confidence that Trump would enact his promises than independents. As we’ve noted many times before, the group that identifies as “independents” is often made up of people who still generally align with one party or the other, which is one reason they fall in the middle on many polling issues. This is also why men and women are closer to the middle than other groups, since partisan identity is split among the genders more evenly than it is among, say, age groups. But independents have lost confidence in Trump far more than men have.If we compare the decline in Trump’s overall approval rating with declines in the percent of people who think Trump doesn’t keep his promises, those independents stand out again. While the drop in approval rating among liberals (from very low to slightly lower) and conservatives (from very high to slightly lower) is about the same, the drop among independents since January has been steep.This matters because Trump’s 2016 coalition was mostly made up of fervent supporters, skeptical Republicans and independents who preferred him over Clinton. (While Trump was generally not trusted, he won easily among the large percentage of Americans who trusted neither him or Clinton.) Trump’s mandate is far smaller than most new presidents and any hope he might have to use his popularity as a cudgel was already weakened by his low approval ratings. If his base of support is reduced to hard-partisan Republicans, his ability to keep his party in line is probably reduced.Notice that to some extent the drop in the percentage saying Trump keeps his promises is a reversion to the mean: On nearly every other metric he was already in the 40s. Now he’s there on promise-keeping, too.Americans believed that, all else aside, he was at least leading in the way that he said he would on the campaign trail. They no longer grant him that.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/two-republican-lawmakers-face-anger-from-their-own-voters-on-health-care/2017/04/16/d52493ec-2077-11e7-be2a-3a1fb24d4671_story.html?utm_term=.2be53c2b2ad6
Two Republican lawmakers face anger, from their own voters, on health careRep. Ted Yoho (R-Fla.) takes a knee on stage to answer a question during a town-hall meeting in Gainesville, Fla., last week. (Phelan Ebenhack/Reuters)By Sean Sullivan  and Kelsey Snell   By Sean Sullivan  and Kelsey Snell        April 16     Follow @WaPoSean  Follow @kelsey_snellPALATKA, Fla. —  Inside a government building here, far-right Rep. Ted Yoho (R-Fla.) scolded his party’s leaders for rolling out an “ill-advised” health-care bill and blamed House Speaker Paul D. Ryan for the ensuing debacle.The next evening on a college campus nestled in the Rocky Mountains, moderate Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) held the House Freedom Caucus — to which Yoho belongs — culpable for the legislation’s defeat.In both places, Republican voters also pointed fingers — at President Trump, Ryan, their members of Congress, or all of them.Fewer than 100 days after Republicans assumed complete control of Washington, their botched attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and broader struggles to cooperate have stoked widespread distrust and despair inside the party. The friction is evident at town hall meetings across the country during the current congressional recess.One lifelong Republican attending Coffman’s town hall in Colorado exclaimed that he was “shocked” by the congressman’s support for the health-care bill, which both Trump and Ryan backed. At Yoho’s event, an attendee pressed the congressman on his role in the Freedom Caucus.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)The open warfare threatens the president and the GOP agenda, but is also dampening enthusiasm with Republican voters who can no longer blame Democrats or divided government for the dysfunction.“I think it’s just tough working with our conference,” Coffman said in an interview, referring to the fact that House Republicans find it almost impossible to agree.The frustration is visible in both purple areas such as Coffman’s district, which will factor heavily into the battle for Congress in 2018; and ruby-red regions, such as Yoho’s seat, which voted strongly for Trump and could be crucial in 2020. It is present in districts represented by members who supported the bill like Coffman, as well as those who opposed it like Yoho.Bob White, a Republican who attended Yoho’s town hall here Tuesday, raised a worrisome question for GOP lawmakers on the ballot next year.“If there was another election I’d still vote for Ted Yoho,” he said in an interview the next day. But a few moments later, White abruptly raised a different possibility:“Or maybe I would just skip over his name.”‘We yield a pretty big stick’White asked Yoho about his place in the small but powerful group of hard-line conservatives to which he belongs — the House Freedom Caucus. The group has been a thorn in the side of House leaders since many of its members were elected in the 2010 tea-party wave, promising to slash their way to smaller government.Maggie MacDonald, 72, reacts to an answer from Rep. Ted Yoho about Planned Parenthood during a town hall meeting in Gainesville, Fla. (Phelan Ebenhack/Reuters)“How big of a stick do you carry with the Freedom Caucus? Is there any influence there?” asked White, 74, who voted for Yoho and Trump.“Yeah, I think we yield a pretty big stick,” Yoho boasted, giving his own spin — intentionally or not — to the often-used phrase about quiet power than includes “carry” a big stick.Many in the group refused to support the American Health Care Act (AHCA) — crafted by Ryan (R-Wis.) and his leadership lieutenants — because it didn’t go far enough to repeal the law known as Obamacare and wouldn’t, they argued, bring down insurance costs sufficiently.Yoho, 62, a veterinarian who once mounted an unsuccessful run against John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) for speaker, argued that the Freedom Caucus received disproportionate blame for the bill’s failure and pointed to resistance from GOP “moderates.”White, a retired truck driver and volunteer teacher, said in an interview that he wants Obamacare repealed “beyond a shadow of a doubt.” But he seemed less sure the Freedom Caucus could make that happen.“The question for me is what clout he had within the Freedom Caucus and did he see any light at the end of the tunnel?” he said, adding, “Because I don’t remember the Freedom Caucus being on the ballot.”In this part of Florida, there was strong support for Trump, who defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in the district to the south and west of Jacksonville by 16 percentage points, post-election analyses show.After his town hall, Yoho told reporters that it was ultimately Ryan’s fault that Republicans weren’t able to repeal the ACA before leaving for the recess. “It’s a function of leadership,” he said, before specifically naming the speaker.In the audience at the town hall, some Republican voters seemed to blame the speaker too.“Uhhhhh,” responded Mark Fisher, 67, who said he voted for Yoho and Trump, when asked whether he thought Ryan was doing a good job. He deferred to his wife, Joanne, 62.“I know he’s a good person and everything. . . . I don’t know,” she said.Yoho was far less critical of Trump than of Ryan, saying he thinks the president was “misled” on health care by House GOP leaders. But Trump spent weeks pushing the measure, holding photo-ops and meeting with its GOP architects. After the health-care bill collapsed, Trump lashed out against the Freedom Caucus for its failure.Ryan’s team does not believe that there is a widespread movement against him among GOP members. Some other members of the Freedom Caucus have not blamed Ryan the way Yoho did.‘That’s not who we are here’Coffman, 62, is one of just 23 House Republicans who represent districts won by Clinton in 2016. His suburban Denver seat is a diverse mix of Democrats, Republicans and independents. That demographic split drove Coffman last summer to run an ad promising to stand up to Trump when they disagree.Many members of the moderate Tuesday Group to which Coffman belongs opposed the House GOP plan. But Coffman said he supported it because every major policy move has to start somewhere. He was quick to blame the Freedom Caucus for the bill’s failure.“I think the Freedom Caucus was completely unrealistic in terms of their expectations,” Coffman said. “If you’re going to be a legislator, you’ve got to legislate and compromise is not a pejorative.”Most of the roughly 200 people who showed up at the University of Colorado Anschutz Campus in Aurora on Wednesday were Democrats who angrily demanded that Coffman make good on his pledge to confront Trump.But they weren’t alone. Steven Haas, 68, stood up to say he was a lifelong Republican upset that Coffman and his fellow Republicans failed to listen when voters made clear that their plan was unsound.“I’m sorry to say I was shocked that you declared your intention to vote for so-called Trumpcare,” Haas said. “That’s not the way we do things in Colorado. The ACA is the law of the land now.”Haas later said he usually votes for Republicans but doesn’t plan to back Coffman next year, because he doesn’t trust him to live up to his moderate reputation in the face of Trump’s agenda.“When he gets to Washington, he votes 96 percent of the time with the far-right wing,” Haas said. “That’s not who we are here. Republicans like me don’t like it.”In Florida, Yoho faced a different kind of anger — some people in his district were upset that he didn’t back Trump in the health-care fight. Yoho explained that the majority of the calls his office received opposed the measure.As they have at many GOP town halls this year, Democrats made their presence felt in Florida. Although they disagree with Yoho on most everything, some are pleased that he didn’t back the GOP proposal — albeit not for the same reasons.“Different ends — same result,” said Joy Pitts, a local activist with Indivisible, a national organization formed to oppose Trump’s agenda.‘Got to start somewhere’Colorado opted to expand Medicaid under the ACA while Florida did not. The House bill would have rolled back Medicaid expansion, causing many Democrats and Republicans to worry about those who obtained coverage as a result of it.Coffman said he has only heard rumors of revived negotiations on the health-care bill — but he worried that Ryan and Trump might try to resurrect the legislation by making it more palatable to conservatives.Coffman is in a tough spot — forced to decide between supporting Trump’s agenda, much of which appeals to the conservative element of his base, and following through on his own promise to independents, centrist Republicans and Democrats that he would stand up for their needs.At the town hall, he was steadily attacked by Democrats and independents who wanted to know when he’d stand up to Trump.“When I disagree with him,” Coffman insisted after an hour of pointed questions. “When I disagree with him, I will.”That kind of answer wasn’t good enough for people like David Leach, a software engineer and registered Democrat who said he had only supported a Republican once in his life when he voted last year for Coffman.“You position yourself as someone who would vote your conscience and work in a bipartisan manner in Congress,” Leach said. “I voted for you because I thought you could be a leader in that regard and I’m not seeing anything.”Pam Cirbo, a GOP volunteer from Littleton, Colo., said she’s generally happy with Trump and is growing tired of people pushing Coffman to resist. Cirbo said she didn’t love the GOP health plan but was frustrated that GOP leaders didn’t try harder to negotiate a compromise.“You’ve got to start somewhere,” Cirbo said. “Maybe the timeline was a little shorter than it should have been.”Snell reported from Aurora, Colo.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-tensions-with-north-korea-flare-trump-spends-quiet-weekend-at-mar-a-lago/2017/04/16/ca77d19e-22bf-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.37019accae77
As tensions with North Korea flare, Trump spends quiet weekend at Mar-a-LagoPresident Trump spent Easter weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. (Yuri Gripas/Reuters)By Ashley Parker  and John Wagner   By Ashley Parker  and John Wagner        April 16     Follow @ashleyrparker  Follow @WPJohnWagnerWEST PALM BEACH, Fla.  — Just hours before North Korea fired a failed ballistic missile, President Trump spent his morning enjoying the blue skies and breezy weather here on Florida’s eastern coast Saturday, zipping around the greens of his private golf club.The day before, the president also passed the morning playing golf at Trump International Golf Club, according to someone who saw him on the course.And in addressing North Korea’s latest provocation, Trump — who spent at least a portion of both evenings greeting guests at his private Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach — deferred to his defense secretary, Jim Mattis, a retired four-star Marine Corps general.“The president and his military team are aware of North Korea’s most recent unsuccessful missile launch,” Mattis said in a ­two-sentence, emailed statement Saturday night. “The president has no further comment.”On the question of North Korea, one of the United States’s most immediate geopolitical threats, Trump was uncharacteristically quiet over the weekend, instead leaving it to his team of deputies, as well as Vice President Pence, to articulate the administration’s policy toward the totalitarian regime.(Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)[N. Korea didn’t test a nuclear weapon, but it did try to launch another missile]In addition to Mattis’s terse statement, the vice president — who arrived in Seoul for a 10-day trip through Asia shortly after the failed launch — briefly addressed North Korea’s latest action at a dinner for U.S. troops and their family members. A White House foreign policy adviser on the trip briefed reporters traveling with Pence as well.“This morning’s provocation from the north is just the latest reminder of the risks each one of you face each and every day in the defense of the freedom of the people of South Korea and the defense of America in this part of the world,” Pence said. “Your willingness to step forward, to serve, to stand firm without fear, inspires.”Mattis’s statement, as well as Trump’s lack of comment Saturday night, stood in stark contrast with the president’s behavior just two months ago, when North Korea claimed in mid-February that it had successfully tested a new type of missile with nuclear capabilities.In response then, Trump — who was again at Mar-a-Lago for a visit with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe — scrambled his traveling press corps to deliver an in-person statement that evening after he and his aides seemed to pore over the latest developments in full view of his club members.But as tensions mounted earlier in the week between the United States and North Korea — which is forging ahead with its nuclear weapons program and is eager to build a missile that can reach the United States — the president departed the White House on Thursday for what he seemed to hope would be a quiet Easter weekend holiday.He brought with him only three junior staffers and K.T. McFarland, a deputy national security adviser who Trump aides said may soon be nominated as ambassador to Singapore in a move many view as a demotion.The president was in touch, however, with Pence, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Mattis, with whom he spoke several times between Thursday and Saturday as the situation unfolded, according to a senior administration official.But in the hours after the failed launch, Trump — who previously has said the United States is willing to intervene on its own if others in the region don’t step up — allowed his advisers, including McFarland and national security adviser H.R. McMaster, to outline the administration’s approach on the Sunday talk shows.McMaster and McFarland offered a notable contrast to Trump’s previously bellicose statements. Both seemed to be calling for patience and tamped down the possibility of imminent military intervention.McMaster, appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” said that the United States is exploring “a range of options” to respond to an increasingly provocative North Korea but that the administration would like “to take action short of armed conflict, so we can avoid the worst.”McFarland, meanwhile, played down the significance of yet another failed North Korean missile launch, saying that the test early Sunday was “not a surprise.”“Even in the last year, President Kim of North Korea has launched over 30 missiles,” McFarland said during an appearance on “Fox News Sunday.” “Most of them have failed. So it didn’t come as a surprise to us. We were expecting something surrounding the birthday of his grandfather.”Saturday was the anniversary of the 1912 birth of Kim Il Sung, North Korea’s founder and the current leader’s grandfather.McMaster and McFarland also talked up the role China could play in bringing North Korea to heel — and urged some patience on that front. About 80 percent of North Korea’s trade is with neighboring China, giving the country a good deal of leverage, they suggested.McFarland said an array of strategies were discussed when Chinese President Xi Jinping recently visited Trump at Mar-a-Lago.“It’s like your kids in the back of the car on a long trip saying, ‘When are we going to get there?’” McFarland said. “Well, in this case, I think we should give the Chinese president some opportunities and some time, as well as pursuing the economic and diplomatic pressures that we have and that our allies have that we can bring to bear on North Korea.”Trump, who save for muscling Justice Neil M. Gorsuch onto the Supreme Court has no real achievements on Capitol Hill of which to boast, has weathered several national security and military crises fewer than 100 days into his presidency, and seems to enjoy both the process and the projection of strength such crises involve.After Syrian President Bashar al-Assad deployed chemical weapons against his own people, Trump worked with his military advisers and responded swiftly, firing 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at a Syrian airfield.Aides to the president said he enjoyed the orderly process, overseen by McMaster, which resembled the streamlined operations of a more traditional White House, with Trump requesting a range of responses and each adviser weighing in with their expertise before the president made a final decision.But Trump seemed determined to avoid conflict of just about any sort this weekend — North Korea or otherwise. He spent his three days in Palm Beach shuttling between Mar-a-Lago and Trump International Golf Club, spending almost no time outside the cocoon of his two palm-tree-lined properties.On Saturday, after golf, the president’s motorcade took a different, longer route than usual to return to his private club, coming back from the north and along the coast. The circuitous trip allowed Trump to avoid the protesters who had gathered along the main thoroughfare just west of Mar-a-Lago to call on him to release his tax returns.White House press secretary Sean Spicer said the route was determined by the Secret Service.Trump, a normally prolific — and brash — user of Twitter, also spent the weekend largely quiet on social media; his last tweet heading into the weekend concerned his enthusiasm about the White House Easter Egg Roll on Monday.On Sunday morning, Trump briefly took to Twitter, boasting about his electoral college victory in the 2016 presidential election and asking why his tax returns mattered in light of his win. He also extolled his efforts to rebuild the military.[Trump asks why people are still talking about his taxes a day after protesters asked for his returns]He also seemed to admit he was using the Treasury Department’s currency report — which did not label China a currency manipulator — as a political bargaining weapon.During the campaign, Trump repeatedly said he would brand China a currency manipulator on Day One of his administration. On Day 83, he officially backed off that course.“Why would I call China a currency manipulator when they are working with us on the North Korea problem?” he wrote on Twitter on Sunday. “We will see what happens!”But then the president retreated back into his calm Palm Beach world. He attended Easter services at Bethesda-by-the-Sea church here with his wife, Melania, son Barron, and daughter from his second marriage, ­Tiffany, before returning to Mar-a-Lago for an annual brunch and Easter egg hunt with his eldest sons, Don Jr. and Eric, and their families, according to an aide.One intrusion from the outside world came from Don Jr., who over the weekend was sporting a green T-shirt that read “Very Fake News” in block white letters — a reminder of all those who, the president believes, have treated him so unfairly.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/this-cowboy-poet-is-trying-to-steal-a-republican-house-seat-in-montana/2017/04/15/5c228e3e-214b-11e7-be2a-3a1fb24d4671_story.html?utm_term=.d64c3312c844
This cowboy-poet is trying to steal a Republican House seat in MontanaDemocrat Rob Quist meets with supporters during the annual Mansfield Metcalf Celebration dinner hosted by the state's Democratic Party on March 18 in Helena, Mont. (Bobby Caina Calvan/AP)By David Weigel  and Kathleen McLaughlin   By David Weigel  and Kathleen McLaughlin        April 15     Follow daveweigelBILLINGS, Mont. —  Rob Quist, the Democratic candidate for Montana’s sole U.S. House seat, had a problem. Big Sky Rising, the local progressive group — one of many that grew out of the National Women’s March — had filled a room for his speech.But the room didn’t have a sound system for Quist, a 69-year-old folk musician, to strum and sing his campaign theme song.“Let me just recite a poem for you about how I feel about our public lands,” Quist said. “Her gown is luscious green when she attends the annual springtime ball. And she fancies orange and gold and harvest moon in the fall. Her wild and natural beauty — it will take away your breath. Oh, but take her for granted? It could easily mean your death.”It had been just 48 hours since a surprisingly close special election in Kansas kicked off Republican hand-wringing about forfeiting Montana’s May 25 special election to replace Ryan Zinke (R), now President Trump’s interior secretary.The Democratic candidate in Montana is a mustachioed 6-foot-3 poet who appears everywhere — churches, fundraisers, and television interviews — in a white cowboy hat and black Ariat boots.Greg Gianforte, right, is congratulated by a supporter in Helena, Mont., after winning the Republican nomination for Montana's special election for the U.S. House. (Matt Volz/AP)That cowboy-poet has raised $1.3 million so far and was competitive with a self-funding Republican contender, Greg Gianforte, who jumped into the race after a near miss 2016 gubernatorial run. Trump easily won Montana, but Democrats still compete strongly for statewide offices.Republicans, flush with cash but facing unbridled Democratic enthusiasm, are taking Quist a bit more seriously. On Thursday, the National Republican Congressional Committee began a $273,000 digital and TV ad buy, accusing Quist of singing in “harmony” with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). The GOP-allied Congressional Leadership Fund is committing at least $1 million to the race, though Executive Director Corey Bliss said last week that Quist had no chance to win.“Rob Quist is such a pathetic candidate that we almost feel bad running ads against him,” Bliss said. “At the end of the day he’ll lose by double-digits.”Montana is one of five special elections this year for open House seats — four of them vacated when Trump plucked Republican lawmakers to become part of his administration. So far, Democrats are doing better than anticipated in conservative areas — including Kansas, where the Democrat came within seven points last Tuesday of winning a district that Trump nabbed by 27 points.But while the Georgia race is seen as a test for the “rising electorate” of minority voters and highly educated white voters, the Montana race is a test for populism. Quist, who backed Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) for president, portrays Gianforte as a plutocrat who will work only for his class. It’s the argument Democrats failed to stick to Trump, and one they want to see working in the places where working-class white voters bolted their party.Gianforte, who has been criticized for holding few public events, plans to welcome Donald Trump Jr. — an avid hunter who argued for Zinke at Interior — to the state next week. The first son will swing into Montana for rallies and fundraisers, $25 a pop.Quist, who won the Democratic nomination at a January convention, professes to be thrilled with the GOP attention. On Thursday, at two public events in Billings, he told Big Sky Rising and a separate room of union members that he could “smell the fear” coming from the right.“One of my top priorities in Congress will be to stop these corporate interests from dictating policy,” Quist told pipe fitters at their Billings union hall. “When I was younger, there was a graph that showed the distribution of wealth across the classes. Now, if you look at the same graph, it’s flat across the bottom, and when you get to the super-rich, they have so much of the wealth that it flies off the page.”Soft-spoken left-wing populism like that helped Quist become the nominee. Our Revolution, the group founded by Sanders, has endorsed Quist. In an interview last week, Sanders said he was looking for an opportunity to stump for him.“If you look up Montana in the dictionary, you see a picture of Rob Quist,” said Rep. Denny Heck (D-Wash.), who chairs the Democratic Congressional Committee’s recruitment program.“Rob Quist’s as Montana as Montana can get,” said the state’s governor, Steve Bullock (D), who defeated Gianforte, Quist’s opponent, just five months ago. “He’s been in all these small communities. He’s working hard. He reflects our values.”The implication is that none of those kinds of words apply to Gianforte. Crisp and confident, the Republican moved to Montana 24 years ago and grew a software company, RightNow Technologies, out of Bozeman. (He was 33, having sold his first company for $10 million.) In Quist’s TV ads, he argues that “there are enough millionaires in Congress” and brands Gianforte as an East Coast arriviste.At the same time, Montanans elected a New York real estate businessman to the presidency — a leap of faith that informs how Gianforte now campaigns. In his TV ads, he promises to “drain the swamp” and stick it to political elites.On Thursday, as Quist stumped in Billings, Gianforte met with local business and political leaders seven hours away in Kalispell in conservative Flathead County.Gianforte, wearing a flag-pinned blazer over a checked shirt, shared the gospel of free markets. “We got here with a series of steps over a period of time, and I think that’s how we dig ourselves out,” he said. “I am encouraged that we have President Trump in the White House because for the first time we have an opportunity to effect change. And I want to be a part of it because I don’t want to see our country squander it.”In an interview, Gianforte paused when asked why outside groups were investing in the race. “I do believe — and we saw this recently with the health-care conversation that went on — for the administration to advance their agenda, they need the votes in the House,” he said. “National groups have gotten involved because they want to help. I’ll always be on Montana’s side, but I’m going to help Donald Trump advance his agenda.”At a Quist fundraiser last week, attendees grabbed lawn signs using the same stylized signature as his album cover as they left. They said there was energy they didn’t feel when Hillary Clinton was running for president.“It’s an opportunity to kick the Republicans in the butt,” said Steve Griswold, 67, a retiree from Wisconsin.Becky Weed, a 57-year-old sheep rancher, pointed out that the event was less than a mile from Gianforte’s home. Democrats cut into the Republican’s support by publicizing his 2009 legal battle to stop public access to the part of a stream that ran through his property.“I’m immersed in the ranch culture, and people I know generally vote Republican,” Weed said. “But they’re willing to go for something different, especially when you’ve got public lands at stake.”The Republican plan is to brand Quist as a liberal in cowboy clothing, more Willie Nelson than Hank Williams Jr. Its doomsday weapon is an interview Quist gave to the Bozeman Daily Chronicle. After talking about his guns and his luck as a hunter, he mused that “assault” weapons, no good for hunting, might need to be registered.“They’re only meant to kill people,” he said, “so maybe there should be some legislation to register those types of things. You register your car to drive, why not register guns?”It was the gaffe of a novice candidate, and Republicans pounced. The NRCC’s first ad tells voters that Quist wants a “national gun registry.” The National Rifle Association is expected to swing into the race with the same message. On the stump, Gianforte never misses a swing at the gun issue. “I’m a strong supporter of the Second Amendment — he believes in gun registration,” he said in Kalispell. The next day, he warned a Republican crowd in Missoula that “registration is the first step toward confiscation.”Quist said in an interview that he’d been ripped out of context.“I was talking about fully automatic assault rifles,” he said. “I was taught that if it takes you more than one shot to bring big game down, you shouldn’t be in the woods.”Quist advised anyone campaigning for him to point out the gun attack was coming from special interests. There were guns in the Quist home, he said, that had been there longer than Gianforte had been in Montana.“All these sports groups know this is a smokescreen,” Quist said. “The number one reason that people no longer hunt or fish is loss of access to public lands.”Quist was more relaxed when it came to attacks on his finances. It was true, he said, that he’d faced $15,000 tax liens and settled in 2016. But he has a multimillionaire to defeat.“I probably should have declared bankruptcy,” he said. “But that’s not the Montana way.”Margaret Grayson in Missoula contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/gop-leaders-urge-patience--not-panic--amid-trumps-early-stumbles/2017/04/15/29bb05d8-213d-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.e4b9376ddc8c
GOP leaders urge patience — not panic — amid Trump’s early stumblesPresident Trump walks along the West Wing Colonnade before a Rose Garden ceremony at the White House on April 10. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By Philip Rucker  and Robert Costa   By Philip Rucker  and Robert Costa        April 15     Follow @PhilipRucker  Follow @costareportsMore Americans disapprove than approve of President Trump’s job performance. His White House is in a perpetual state of turmoil. Fellow Republicans control Congress, but no signature legislation has passed. And in ruby-red Kansas last week, the Republican candidate in a special election got a scare from a turbocharged Democratic base, winning a House seat by a far slimmer margin than expected.For a Republican Party already starting to strategize ahead of next year’s midterm elections, the turbulent, inchoate environment as the Trump presidency nears its 100th-day mark could be a cause for concern or even alarm.Yet party leaders and strategists are preaching patience, not panic.These Republicans — who acknowledge that their political brand will be shaped by the 45th president as long as he holds office — say their political fortunes will be told over the next year and a half in the answers to two overriding questions: Does Trump project strength? And does he achieve progress that amounts to more jobs and higher wages?“What matters is a record of accomplishment,” said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who has been conducting focus groups of Trump supporters. “People can disagree over the details or the significance of the change, but if you have a record of accomplishment, that fixes everything. . . . If you don’t, no rhetoric will fix it.”(Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post)That view contrasts sharply with the conservative ideological projects inspired by some past Republican presidents, including Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, and is part of an emerging recognition for the Grand Old Party that doctrines may not drive voters as much as selling changes Trump has made.[Trump as a ‘conventional Republican’? That’s what some in GOP establishment say they see.]Though Trump’s first three months in office have seen a flurry of activity, including adding conservative Justice Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, he has no major legislative victory. Trump’s push to change the Affordable Care Act — the health-care law Republicans have derided as Obamacare and campaigned to repeal and replace — collapsed in a humiliating defeat for Trump and the GOP leadership.The president who campaigned on his decades of real estate dealmaking and his vow that nobody could execute more “beautiful” deals in Washington is anxious to achieve, well, deals.“He’s realizing that the party will hang with him, but there are no guarantees and no easy paths forward,” said Ed Rollins, a longtime GOP strategist. “It’s got to kill them that they have the whole thing — the White House and Congress — and they can’t seem to get it together.”Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) was blunt: “We can’t blame this on Barack Obama. We have to look in the mirror.”For congressional Republicans, the challenges are not necessarily overcoming a policy divide with Trump, but getting clear direction from the White House about the shape and scope of the agenda for the remainder of the year.(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)On health care, there is a lingering concern that the conservative House Freedom Caucus remains a conundrum without an answer. On taxes, too, Republicans on Capitol Hill say they are perplexed by a lack of consensus on rates and how to address various deductions. It is not even clear to them who in the Trump administration — Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin or National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn — is taking the lead, or whether House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.) will eventually be called upon to craft a compromise.The ability of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) to guide Trump on policy is another unknown. With Ryan’s hand burned by the health-care defeat, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), who has an easy rapport with Trump, is rising as a potential new power broker.[The ‘closer’? The inside story of how Trump tried — and failed — to make a deal on health care.]What worries Republican leaders is the potent Trump resistance movement activated on the left. Consider last week’s results in Kansas. Trump carried the 4th Congressional District last fall by 27 percentage points, yet Republican Ron Estes won the special election for the open House seat by just seven percentage points over Democrat James Thompson, who was buoyed by a surge in his party’s turnout.Another special election this Tuesday presents a second test, this time in a suburban Atlanta district that is expected to be more competitive for Democrats than the one in Kansas.“Their base is whipped up and going,” Cole said of the Democrats. “Nothing we can do is going to change that. So you better have your own base equally charged up, and to do that you have to convince them that you’re getting things done — that the fact that they gave you the Senate, the House and the White House means something.”In his quest for legislative wins on such issues as tax reform and infrastructure spending, Trump is signaling a desire to broker with Democrats, although outreach has been scattered and no bipartisan alliance has emerged.In the past week alone, Trump reversed several positions in conflict with his campaign promises. He said that he now supports NATO and the Export-Import Bank, and that he no longer believes China is manipulating its currency.Trump’s new stances reflect the rising influence of a bloc of business-friendly, global-oriented advisers at the expense of Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist and champion of Trump’s nationalist ideas and pugilistic tactics. The shifts have fueled the perception that the president is evolving into a more traditional Republican.“The question is: Will he continue to engage his populism and his outsider status?” asked Patrick J. Caddell, a political consultant and Bannon friend. “What is his organizing principle? It has long been overthrowing and changing the system, protecting people and taking on institutions. If he abandons those kinds of ideas, then what is he all about?”[Inside Bannon’s struggle: From ‘shadow president’ to Trump’s marked man]Strategists who are counseling Republican leaders and candidates in the 2018 midterms said most voters may not care, for instance, whether Trump labels China a currency manipulator. What matters, they said, is whether the Republicans in charge can work together to get results.“People were voting for change,” said David Winston, a GOP pollster. “It doesn’t have to be everything all the time, but there has to be a sense of forward progress. They’re looking for two basic outcomes: more jobs and higher wages. It’s pretty straightforward.”Austin Barbour, a Republican strategist based in Mississippi, said, “Trump voters see him not for the policy stances that he takes. It has to be a really big single issue to get their attention. Most of them think, he’s not Barack Obama and he’s a straight shooter who will always say what’s on his mind and he says he’ll make the country a better place.”Trump’s first three months in office have not been without action. He has signed a slew of executive orders. His Cabinet is working to loosen regulations throughout the bureaucracy. He has pressured business leaders and sought to take credit for thousands of new manufacturing jobs, although most were already in the works.Trump also has reimagined America’s posture in the world. He has won accolades from many Republicans and some Democrats for a bombing strike in Syria, dropping the “mother of all bombs” on Islamic State forces in Afghanistan, toughening his administration’s approach to Russia and cultivating a rapport with the leaders of China and Japan amid rising tensions with North Korea.Some Trump allies say he must stay true to his promise of wholesale change to maintain his political currency.“They’re in power because people reacted to the options that were presented and went with the party that seemed to be more like change,” Caddell said. “There is no deep support for the GOP. They remain an unpopular party, and people are very dissatisfied, which is why Trump is sitting in the White House. If the Republicans don’t recognize that, our politics will move on from them.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republicans-may-be-making-a-mistake-by-swinging-only-for-the-fences/2017/04/15/b82da176-21e8-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.f6f13d3265dd
Republicans may be making a mistake by swinging only for the fencesPresident Trump, flanked by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), left,and House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), speaks during a meeting with House and Senate leadership in the Roosevelt Room of the White House. Trump and his Republican-led Congress have swung for the fences early and, so far, have struck out. (Evan Vucci/AP)By Paul Kane   By Paul Kane        April 15     Follow @pkcapitolA couple of weeks after the 2008 election, Rahm Emanuel, the incoming White House chief of staff, and Phil Schiliro, the incoming White House director of legislative affairs, huddled with the Democratic congressional leadership to talk strategy.Everyone knows the big agenda they pursued — an $800 billion economic stimulus, a sweeping health-care law and an overhaul of Wall Street regulations — but the leaders also agreed on a parallel strategy that was almost as critical. That effort became a steady supply of smaller bills, more niche in focus but also bipartisan in support, ranging from enhancing consumer protections in the credit-card industry to making it easier to stop children from smoking.“The singles,” Emanuel, now the mayor of Chicago, called those efforts in an interview last week while visiting Washington. These smaller measures filled the House and Senate floor throughout early 2009 as committee chairmen battled behind the scenes on the finer print of the much bigger legislation to come.Eight years later, President Trump and his Republican-led Congress have swung for the fences early and, so far, have struck out. As Republicans again try to craft a repeal plan for the 2010 Affordable Care Act and continue shooting for a massive tax cut, Emanuel wonders from where the GOP will get its momentum.“The bunt singles,” he said, motioning his arms like a ballplayer trying to get the smallest of hits, “they don’t even have them.”Some GOP lawmakers’ block-everything mentality could imperil big-picture plansA quarter of the way through Trump’s first year in office, Republicans’ only legislative successes have come on small bills that wiped out regulations from the last weeks President Barack Obama was in office. Lawmakers are using the obscure Congressional Review Act of 1996 to do so on party-line votes.Those dozens of nixed regulations do represent a win for Trump, and Republican leaders are aware of the need to demonstrate some wins. In an interview before Congress left for its two-week spring break, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) noted that undoing regulations “unfortunately doesn’t make a lot of news” and said his office was going to compile a report on the sweep and impact of those moves.But Congress’s authority to undo a previous administration’s regulations through the CRA process expires early next month. Confirming Justice Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, only after blowing up Senate rules to do so on a simple majority, is the only other solid victory the GOP can so far claim.“The only reason that we were able to do them is they were 51-vote situations,” McConnell said.McConnell has made clear that the overhaul of the tax code is the only other big piece of legislation that would fall under special budgetary rules allowing for a simple majority in the Senate.Everything else will require a minimum of eight Senate Democrats, and all 52 Republicans, to overcome a filibuster in that chamber. That makes it much more difficult for Republicans to get things done than those early regulatory repeals and confirming members of Trump’s cabinet.It’s unclear what Republicans will do while leaders and committee chairmen continue haggling behind closed doors over the big battles on health and tax policy.Their agenda is starting to look pretty barren.After they figure out a way to keep government agencies funded by April 28, Republicans do not have much lined up to push onto center stage on the House and Senate floors.They’ve got some bills waiting to reauthorize the Food and Drug Administration’s collection of user fees on the makers of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, along with legislation to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration and the state-based Children’s Health Insurance Program.If they’re not careful, Republicans could head into the long August recess without adding anything more to their win list than the already-repealed regulations and Gorsuch’s confirmation.That’s not exactly the sort of vision that Trump cited in his January inaugural address when he vowed: “The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.”Sixteen years ago, the George W. Bush administration operated with amazing early efficiency. By mid-June 2001, Bush had signed into law a $1.3 trillion tax cut and the House and Senate had approved their versions of the No Child Left Behind education legislation — each passing with significant Democratic support.In 2009, Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), then the Senate majority leader, and Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), then the House speaker, set out to get some early “singles” by approving a large expansion of the CHIP and a pay-equity bill.Before Memorial Day in 2009, Obama enacted legislation giving consumers more rights against credit-card companies, with the support of 113 House Republicans. A month later, he signed a bill to allow the FDA to more forcefully regulate tobacco marketing to prevent children from taking up smoking — with the support of 70 House Republicans.“We all agreed on the need to hit some singles and doubles,” Jim Manley, a senior Reid aide, recalled of the strategy session with Emanuel and congressional leaders.Those early wins helped teach everyone how things are supposed to work, building up confidence at the White House and Congress. Eventually, Democrats passed most of their big-agenda items, and voters recoiled, leading to devastating losses in the 2010 midterm elections for Obama’s party.But Democrats had succeeded on one level — passing some progressive laws and giving their supporters something to show for the losses they suffered politically. Now, Republicans are struggling to enact their overarching agenda, and their counterparts think that it’s because the GOP never learned how to do the basics as an opposition party. Instead, maybe Republicans should be seeking a few smaller pieces of legislation.“One of the reasons they are in the mess they are is that they didn’t do that,” Manley said. “They swung for the fences immediately with batters who didn’t have a lot of batting practice and weren’t used to hitting at all.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/virginia-politics/republicans-running-for-virginia-governor-tangle-in-tv-debate/2017/04/13/7b6e213e-2080-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.4f00a11c94d5
Republicans running for Virginia governor tangle in TV debateRepublican gubernatorial candidate Ed Gillespie, right, and State Sen. Frank Wagner, left, listen to Corey Stewart, center, during a debate Thursday at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. (AP) (Steve Helber/AP)By Laura Vozzella   By Laura Vozzella        April 14     Follow @LVozzellaLYNCHBURG, Va. — Two Republicans running for Virginia governor repeatedly accused each other of lying, while the third called their tax-cut plans disingenuous and even dangerous in the only scheduled TV debate ahead of the June 13 primary.Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors, was the most aggressive during the hour-long event at Liberty University Thursday night, taking aim at political strategist Ed Gillespie, the perceived front-runner because he has led in fundraising and endorsements.Stewart accused Gillespie of supporting amnesty for illegal immigrants and of endorsing, in his 2006 memoir, the “individual mandate” for health insurance — akin to a requirement under the Affordable Care Act. Gillespie said neither was true.“Google ‘Corey Stewart lies’ and you’ll be amazed at all that pops up,” Gillespie said.Stewart dug in.“Page 245 of your book, Ed,” he said, referring to the passage in Gillespie’s “Winning Right” that he said endorsed the insurance mandate. “If you really want to find the truth, go to Establishment Ed,” he added, referring to a Web site that mocks the former Republican National Committee chairman.Despite those jabs and others, the debate among Gillespie, Stewart and state Sen. Frank W. Wagner (Virginia Beach) was heavy on substance, with moderators delving into matters as wonky as Virginia’s Certificate of Public Need program, which gives the state a say in whether certain medical facilities may be built. There were no obvious gaffes nor any of the Confederate flag-draped theatrics Stewart has relied on to draw attention to his bid.[Did a Republican running for Va. governor really dress up like a Confederate gent? ]The moderators — Liberty spokesman Len Stevens and WSET-TV news anchor Mark Spain — did not touch on abortion, religious liberty or other matters of particular interest to evangelicals, a surprise given that the debate took place at the world’s largest Christian university.Gillespie shoehorned the lone religious reference into his closing statement, as he wished the crowd “a blessed Good Friday . . . and Easter.”[Gillespie at Liberty U: My setbacks were part of God’s plan]Liberty President Jerry Falwell Jr. attended the event but said through a spokesman earlier in the week that he was not following the race closely.The moderators’ all-business approach seemed to help the often-overshadowed Wagner grab more of the spotlight. Playing up his quarter-century in Richmond, much of it devoted to securing funds for transportation projects, Wagner ridiculed his rivals as they weighed in on issues that he had already worked on as a legislator.[Liberty U is the setting for televised debate among GOP candidates for Va. governor]“I missed both of these people when we actually debated and killed Medicaid” expansion, he said at one point. And later: “I missed both of these candidates when we were fighting the [federal] Clean Power Plan in Richmond.”Wagner, who says the state needs more tax revenue for transportation, also criticized the tax cuts Gillespie and Stewart have proposed. After Gillespie promised to cut income taxes by 10 percent and ticked off plans to improve schools, transportation and drug treatment, Wagner said that would put the state’s AAA bond-rating at risk.“We’re going to cut taxes and spend more money on this, this, this and this,” said Wagner, a Naval Academy graduate and former shipyard owner, summarizing Gillespie’s promises. “At the Naval Academy, you learned you had to be honest. As a Navy diver, you don’t make statements like that or people die.”Stewart has called for an even larger income tax cut: a 17.4 percent reduction in the first year and a full phase-out for localities bordering Tennessee, which has no income tax. He also has called for eliminating the tax statewide in “the next several years” under what he calls “Corey’s Big Bold Virginia Tax Cut.”Stewart questioned if Gillespie’s more detailed tax plan adds up, asking Gillespie, “Is there a single identified cut in your tax plan?”The debate took place just days ahead of Sunday’s 10th anniversary of the Virginia Tech massacre, when Seung Hui Cho, a Tech senior with a history of mental health problems, killed 32 people before taking his own life. In light of the anniversary, Spain asked if the candidates favored closing the “gun-show loophole” that allows people to bypass background checks when buying guns from sellers who are not licensed dealers.All three oppose new restrictions on guns, but their responses highlighted stark differences in style.Wagner was characteristically direct: “The [current] rules and laws are totally adequate.” Stewart was combative, claiming “the gun-show loophole is a myth” (because licensed dealers who sell as shows must conduct the checks), and accusing Gillespie of skipping a rally with the Virginia Citizens Defense League in January to hang out with lobbyists.And Gillespie sounded like a general-election candidate trying to appeal to both sides of the contentious issue. He offered his “thoughts and prayers” to Tech families, affirmed his support for the Second Amendment and sought to put the heat on the two Democrats running to succeed term-limited Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D), Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam and former congressman Tom Perriello. He said Northam and Perriello would seek to limit gun rights.Gillespie even explained his absence from the gun rally in a way that could play well with general-election voters: He was serving meals to needy families at an African-American church that day, which was Martin Luther King Day.The three Republicans followed a similar pattern when asked about illegal immigration. “What part of ‘illegal’ don’t they understand?” said Wagner, who promised to turn any illegal immigrants arrested in Virginia over to federal immigration officials. Stewart spelled out horrifying details of a recent killing in nearby Bedford County. Three Salvadoran MS-13 gang members in the country illegally have been charged in the abduction and murder of 17-year-old Raymond Wood.“Three criminal illegal immigrants cut off his feet, cut off his hands and they nearly beheaded him, and they dumped his body in Bedford,” said Stewart, who drew national attention a decade ago with a crackdown on illegal immigrants in Prince William. “If they’re here illegally, you boot them out of the country.”Gillespie, in turn, offered his “thoughts and prayers” to Wood’s family. Then he turned his attention to Northam and Perriello, criticizing their support for issuing driver’s licenses to illegal immigrants. Gillespie added that he opposed offering in-state tuition to students brought to the country illegally as children but said nothing about any deportation goals.The three Republicans are scheduled to square off again April 22 at a Goochland debate
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republicans-may-not-want-trump-to-end-obamacare-payments/2017/04/14/f85409ea-214b-11e7-be2a-3a1fb24d4671_story.html?utm_term=.c570268e6b7d
Republicans may not want Trump to end Obamacare paymentsRep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) (J. Scott Applewhite/AP)By Paige Winfield Cunningham   By Paige Winfield Cunningham        April 14     Follow @pw_cunninghamSome influential Republicans in Congress don’t want a fight President Trump is threatening to pick over extra Obamacare payments to insurers.Trump suggested this week that as Congress seeks to fund the government beyond April, Republicans should refuse to pay for cost-sharing subsidies provided through the Affordable Care Act to low-income Americans. There’s widespread agreement that without the subsidies, insurers would be forced to hike premiums next year, worsening conditions in the Obamacare insurance marketplaces.The president told the Wall Street Journal on Wednesday that not only would such a move cause Obamacare to “die,” it could also be used to force Democrats to negotiate on repealing the health-care law altogether. “Without the payments, Obamacare is gone, just gone,” Trump said.[Trump’s threat prompts Democrats to play hardball over Obamacare payments]Many Republicans are well aware that the public is likely to blame them for premium increases, now that they control both Congress and the White House and have so far failed to agree on a health-care replacement plan. And Democrats are keenly aware of the shifting dynamics, seizing every opportunity they can  to insist Republicans now own the health-care law.The Democratic leadership in Congress says it will hold up the government funding bill that expires on April 28 in order to secure the payments if Trump decides to withhold them. But Republicans are unlikely to want to shut down the government — or for Trump to withhold the payments in the first place.“I don’t think Democrats will let this happen, but I frankly don’t think the Republicans want it to happen either,” said Timothy Jost, a health-law professor at Washington and Lee University.Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), who, as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, helped craft the GOP health-care plan, told constituents this week that the subsidies need to be funded, period.“It was a commitment made by the government to the insurers and the people,” Walden said Wednesday at a town hall in his district. “That needs to happen.”Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), who chairs the powerful Appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over health care, has also said it’s important to fund the payments for insurers, although he stressed it’s a decision that the House leadership would have to make.“It’s probably the right thing to do, I think,” Cole told The Washington Post last month. “Otherwise you’re going to have insurance companies exiting the market.”Other top Republicans are remaining quiet about how to handle the subsidies, letting the White House lead the way. Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.) isn’t taking a position. A ­Brady spokeswoman said Friday that the congressman “believes the administration is taking important steps to stabilize Obamacare’s collapsing marketplace.”(Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post)The Trump administration must decide whether it will continue pursuing a GOP lawsuit to block the subsidies. The House sued the Obama administration for awarding the subsidies without a clear congressional appropriation and won in federal court last year. The Obama administration appealed the decision.Now the GOP has the White House on its side — and a new concern that Republicans will bear the public blame for problems with Obamacare. Trump’s victory created a tricky new situation that House Republicans surely didn’t envision when they filed the lawsuit, said Bill Pierce, a ­health policy expert at APCO Worldwide.“It is a situation entirely of their own doing,” Pierce said.Republicans have said they were fighting the awarding of insurer payments without permission from Congress — not the subsidies themselves. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) hasn’t said whether he wants to fund the subsidies in a spending bill later this month, and his office didn’t respond Friday to a query about the issue.“We believe in Congress retaining its lawmaking power, but this lawsuit hasn’t run its course,” Ryan said late last month. “While the lawsuit is running its course, the administration is exercising their discretion with respect to the [cost-sharing reductions].”The health-care law requires marketplace insurers to discount extra insurance costs beyond the monthly premium — such as deductibles and co-payments — for people earning less than 250 percent of the poverty level. Without federal payments to cover those discounts, it’s estimated that insurers would hike premiums by an average of 19 percent.That reality is leading law­makers such as Walden and Cole to back the subsidies, even if they want to get rid of the underlying law. The cost-sharing reductions would cost an estimated $7 billion or $8 billion in the next year, but with that cost already built in, Congress wouldn’t have to come up with extra money to fund them.If Trump pushes for withholding the payments, it could fuel a clash between these lawmakers and conservatives who want to damage Obamacare in any way they can.“I’m not alone in my party in [wanting to fund the cost-sharing reductions], but there are a lot in my party that don’t think that,” Walden said.Insurers are watching the situation with trepidation, with rapidly approaching deadlines for announcing whether they will continue selling plans on the insurance marketplaces next year. Kristine Grow, a spokeswoman for the trade association America’s Health Insurance Plans, said more plans will likely exit without the cost-sharing reductions.“A lot of plans are very likely to drop out of the market because of continued instability,” Grow said.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trumps-pledge-to-allow-churches-to-support-candidates-may-be-part-of-tax-bill/2017/04/13/fe9dd1fe-2052-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.3838a7cc397d
Trump’s pledge to allow churches to support candidates may be part of tax billAs Republicans struggle to craft a sweeping tax package — a process already rife with political land mines — they are preparing to add another volatile element to the mix: a provision that would end a six-decade-old ban on churches and other tax-exempt organizations supporting political candidates.The repeal of the “Johnson Amendment” is being written into tax legislation developed in the House of Representatives, according to aides. President Trump has vowed to “totally destroy” the provision at the behest of evangelical Christians who helped elect him.The inclusion of the repeal in broader tax legislation could bolster its chances. A stand-alone bill would almost certainly face a filibuster in the Senate, where opponents fear the measure would effectively turn churches into super PACs.But the prospects for comprehensive tax reform also remain far from certain given differences in priorities among House and Senate Republicans and an array of business groups prepared to fight provisions that would hurt them.Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.) backs allowing churches and other tax-exempt groups to support political candidates. (Joshua Roberts/Reuters)It is also unclear whether Trump, who has struggled to navigate Capitol Hill, supports the strategy of including the repeal in a broader tax bill, which is likely to include corporate and middle-class tax cuts.“Republicans are going to have enough problems getting tax reform done,” said Jim Manley, a longtime aide to former Senate minority leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.). “If they start loading it up with unrelated stuff like this one to score political points, it will just get bogged down and go nowhere.”The measure at issue is named for Lyndon B. Johnson, who introduced it in the Senate in 1954, nine years before he became president. The provision prohibits tax-exempt organizations, including houses of worship, from endorsing or opposing political candidates.Repeal of the amendment has been sought primarily by conservative Christian leaders, who argue that it is used selectively to keep them from speaking out freely in church.During the campaign, Trump spoke out in favor of ending the prohibition, and he strongly reiterated his support during the National Prayer Breakfast shortly after taking office.White House spokeswoman Natalie Strom said Trump still supports repeal, but she would not comment on whether he backs the approach advocated by Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.Ralph Reed, chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, which counts repeal of the Johnson amendment as a top priority, said he is not as concerned with how the repeal happens as he is that Trump and other Republican leaders keep their promise.Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) opposes moves to lift restrictions on tax-exempt groups backing political candidates. (Jahi Chikwendiu/Washington Post)“That would be fine with us, if it were to become law as part of a tax package,” Reed said. “We’d like to have an up-or-down vote, but this might make it easier to pass.”Houses of worship make up just a fraction of the universe of 501(c)(3) organizations, named for a portion of the tax code.Last week, nearly 4,500 such organizations signed onto a letter to congressional leaders, urging them not to weaken or repeal the amendment. It also argued that allowing nonprofit organizations to support candidates would create a loophole in campaign disclosure laws because contributions to many such groups are not made public and are tax deductible.“Nonpartisanship is a cornerstone principle that has strengthened the public’s trust of the charitable community,” the letter said.Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, one of the groups that signed the letter, criticized any attempt by House leaders to attach repeal of the Johnson amendment to broader tax legislation.“It’s simply an effort to ram it through without getting a vote on it,” Wertheimer said.The aim of repealing the Johnson amendment is also not universally embraced by all religious groups. A coalition of 99 organizations, including many Jewish and Baptist groups, sent a separate letter to Congress last week, urging that the ban stay in place.In a statement Thursday, Sen. Ron Wyden (Ore.), the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, spoke out against efforts to eliminate the Johnson amendment.“A repeal would undermine the sanctity of our religious institutions, increase the flow of dark money in politics and force taxpayers to foot the bill for special interests,” Wyden said.But Jerry Falwell Jr., an evangelical Christian leader and president of Liberty University, said that such concerns are overblown, saying a repeal could be “carefully crafted” to ensure that churches and other tax-exempt organizations are permitted to spend only a small percentage of their funds on support of candidates.“That just needs to be worked out,” he said.Falwell said religious leaders are mostly concerned about the ability to speak freely and not risk losing their institution’s tax-exempt status with the Internal Revenue Service. Most are not interested in turning their churches into super PACs, he said.Under current law, churches are free to engage in political activity; the restrictions under the Johnson Amendment are triggered by their acceptance of tax-exempt status.As a candidate, Trump voiced his opposition to the Johnson Amendment during a speech in June to a group of hundreds of conservative Christian faith leaders who met with him in New York. He also pressed the issue in smaller settings, including in a meeting with faith leaders before a rally in North Carolina shortly before the election, said Tami Fitzgerald, executive director of the NC Values Coalition, who was one of the participants.And during his appearance at the National Prayer Breakfast in February, Trump vowed to “get rid of and totally destroy the Johnson amendment and allow our representatives of faith to speak freely and without fear of retribution.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/obama-said-there-was-never-a-better-time-to-be-alive-trump-thinks-a-nasty-world-offers-nothing-but-problems/2017/04/13/59c9c65e-2090-11e7-be2a-3a1fb24d4671_story.html?utm_term=.c43bb1d4ca8a
Obama said there was never a better time to be alive. Trump thinks a ‘nasty’ world offers nothing but problems.President Trump listens as he and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg participate in a news conference in the East Room of the White House on April 12. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By David Nakamura   By David Nakamura        April 13     Follow @davidnakamuraAddressing the United Nations last fall, President Barack Obama took a moment to highlight for fellow world leaders what he called “the most important fact” about the state of global affairs: Human existence on planet Earth is good — and getting better.War is down, he said, while life expectancy is up. Democracy is on the march, and science has beaten back infectious diseases. A girl in a remote village can download the “entirety of human knowledge” on a smartphone.A person born today, Obama concluded, is more likely to be safer, healthier, wealthier and better-educated — and to see a path to prosperity — than at “any time in human history.”President Trump does not inhabit this world.To Trump, the world is “a mess,” as he said during a White House news conference this week with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.(Victoria Walker/The Washington Post)In recent days, Trump authorized missile strikes on Syria, shifted rapidly to a tougher tone with Russia, and negotiated with China’s authoritarian leader over what to do about North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.“It’s crazy what’s going on,” Trump said. “Whether it’s the Middle East or you look at — no matter where — Ukraine — whatever you look at, it’s got problems, so many problems.”“Right now,” he concluded, “it’s nasty.”What a time to be alive.To ordinary Americans, the gulf between the worldviews of the United States’ two most recent leaders could not be more vast.But historians and foreign affairs analysts said that, despite their apparent contradictions, both things can be true. The world is always a mess. Bad things happen. There are crises. People die.The question, they said, is how a president responds to the mess and how he frames the threat and the response to the public — a challenge made more difficult in an age of immediate and nonstop news from across the world.“President Obama constantly reminded us that our own times are not uniquely oppressive,” said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian and author at Rice University. “There’s a feeling due to the 24-7 news cycle that everything is a crisis mode, when the fact of the matter is, Americans have it better now than ever before.”Throughout his campaign, Trump railed about the dangers and threats to Americans: inside the country in the form of undocumented immigrants and violent inner cities, and abroad in the form of Islamic State terrorists, swarms of refugees and rapacious U.S. trading partners.Time and again, Obama sought to counter Trump’s apocalyptic rhetoric by putting the purported threats in broader context and cautioning Americans not to succumb to fear or anger.The Islamic State does not represent an “existential threat” to the country, Obama said in November 2015, just a few days after Islamic State terrorists killed 130 people in Paris. Rather, he said, they were nothing more than “a bunch of killers with good social media.”Obama characterized most undocumented immigrants as hard-working strivers. Globalization caused discomfort for some workers, Obama acknowledged, but he was quick to emphasize the opportunities it provided for American ingenuity in new markets overseas.“Yes, we’re going through large, structural changes . . . [and] all these things are creating a new politics for the world,” said Simon Rosenberg, founder of NDN, a liberal think tank in Washington. “The challenge is not to be overwhelmed but to manage them for one’s own benefit. That’s where Trump is so flummoxed. He is more fearful of the changes than he is understanding the goal of the president is to manage them for the benefit of the United States.”That might have been Obama’s goal, but the president recognized during his final year in office that his optimistic message to Americans was at risk of being overtaken by the chaotic images from abroad.During a town hall-style event with young people in Malaysia in September, Obama said that the flow of information bombarding news consumers on televisions, computers and smartphones makes it appear “as if the world is falling apart.”A war here, an environmental disaster there, and suddenly “everybody is shouting and everybody hates each other,” Obama said. “And you get kind of depressed. You think, ‘Goodness, what’s happening?’ ”But, Obama emphasized, “if you had a choice of when to be born and you didn’t know ahead of time who you were going to be — what nationality, whether you were male or female, what religion — but you had said, ‘When in human history would be the best time to be born?’ — the time would be now.”Steven Pinker, a psychology professor at Harvard University, has written that voluminous data back up Obama’s argument. But he acknowledged that the former president’s message did “fail to resonate” during a rapid-fire campaign news cycle.“He has the facts behind him, but to get those facts, you can’t read the daily news,” Pinker said. “If you only look at bad things, there are always bad things. Trump is right that there is a lot of nasty stuff going on. There always is, and unfortunately there probably always will be. The question is, is there more nasty stuff? The answer is no.”Unlike Obama, Trump is a voracious consumer of breathless, hyperbolic cable news programming. In the White House, he has continued to react, on Twitter, to the partisan debate and unfolding horrors on his television screen.His message has consistently been that America is being taken advantage of because of Obama’s weakness. China and Mexico are beating the United States on trade. Middle Eastern refugees are flowing across borders, causing chaos and crime. Immigrants are taking American jobs. “We don’t win anymore,” Trump said repeatedly.In his inaugural address, Trump described in stark terms problems he saw across the country as he began his presidency and said, “This American carnage stops right here and stops right now.”To historian Rick Shenkman, author of “Political Animals: How Our Stone-Age Brain Gets in the Way of Smart Politics,” Trump’s rhetoric appeals to base human instincts, hard-wired from prehistoric times, to be on guard for constant threats.While some critics have suggested Trump exploits public fears, Shenkman believes he more effectively leverages public anger.“People who are in an angry mood want change,” he said. “They will take risks for change . . . Modern political parties, and Trump in particular, have learned that if you keep people in a state of nonstop anger, they stand by you.”Yet historians said Trump, like other presidents, would have to shift to a more upbeat message as his presidency matures. “A presidency can’t feed on failure,” Brinkley said.Others suggested that Trump’s recent pivot away from some of his foreign policy positions from the campaign — such as calling NATO “obsolete” and threatening to label China a “currency manipulator” — reflects a leader coming to terms with how complicated the world is and how difficult it will be to address the global challenges without allies and partners now that he is in charge.“Right now, there is a fear, and there are problems — there are certainly problems,” Trump said at the White House. “But ultimately, I hope that there won’t be a fear and there won’t be problems, and the world can get along. That would be the ideal situation.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republican-house-leader-avoids-selling-gop-health-care-plan-at-home/2017/04/13/199bc5a4-2046-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.dff333c68fd9
Republican House leader avoids selling GOP health-care plan at homePeople listen as Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) speaks during a town hall at Fort Dalles Readiness Center on Wednesday in The Dalles, Ore. (Raelynn Ricarte/AP)By Paige Winfield Cunningham   By Paige Winfield Cunningham        April 13     Follow @pw_cunninghamHOOD RIVER, Ore. —  Rep. Greg Walden is one of the Republican House leaders who crafted the measure to overhaul the health-care system that dramatically imploded before lawmakers went home for a two-week recess.But when faced with a large crowd of angry constituents in his district this week, the Oregon Republican seemed reluctant to claim the legislation as his own. Instead, Walden stressed the parts of President Obama’s Affordable Care Act that he wants to keep.That did not stop about 1,500 of his constituents who packed this liberal area at two town halls on Wednesday from slamming the congressman for wanting to overhaul Obamacare in a state that heavily relies on it.“Why don’t you go back to Washington, [and] in the spirit of bipartisanship, grow a pair, sit down with [House Democratic leader] Nancy Pelosi and say, ‘Let’s fix Obamacare,’ ” said one middle-aged man at Columbia Gorge Community College, where about 500 people gathered.A few in the rowdy crowd at the next town hall seemed to know that Walden, as the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, played a pivotal role in crafting the GOP’s American Health Care Act, which would have rolled back Obamacare’s system of subsidies and phased out that law’s Medicaid expansion.(Reuters)“It was an embarrassment and a disaster,” said one attendee at Hood River Middle School, where 1,000 people showed up, prompting applause across the auditorium. “You don’t make the plan better by taking away insurance for 24 million people across the nation.”Like many House Republicans, Walden has spent the past seven years attacking Obamacare and promising to repeal and replace it if the GOP secured one-party rule in Washington. But now that Walden has his wish, eliminating Obamacare is proving extremely difficult and politically dangerous.That was certainly the case at home this week in his sprawling eastern Oregon 2nd District, which he won with a comfortable 72 percent of the vote in November. Walden held events in Hood River and Wasco counties, the least conservative areas that he represents — winning in Hood by just five votes in the last election. When he asked participants at the community college whether they voted for Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders in the presidential election, the vast majority raised their hands.But President Trump won Walden’s district by nearly 20 points — a fact Walden pointed out at one particularly heated point on Wednesday.Yet not even Trump’s role in pushing the GOP health-care plan prompted Walden — an ally of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) — to embrace it. He responded to most health-care questions by touting the popular portions of Obamacare the GOP plan would retain, including preventing insurers from denying coverage to those with pre-existing conditions and allowing young people to stay on their parents’ plans.Walden insisted that Republicans will work with Democrats on future health-care issues, although their presence has so far been conspicuously absent in negotiations around the GOP plan.“There is a lot of reform with health care that is being done on a bipartisan basis and will be done on a bipartisan basis,” was all Walden told one attendee at the community college, before moving on to another question.Rep. Greg Walden speaks during a town hall on Wednesday in The Dalles, Ore. (Stephanie Yao Long/AP)The only GOP lawmaker from Oregon, Walden finds himself in the same tricky position as several other House Republicans who have pledged to get rid of Obamacare but whose constituents heavily rely on it. Oregon expanded Medicaid as part of the law, and it now covers about one-fourth of all residents. It has also sought to innovate when it comes to that program.Experts said that the GOP health plan would stem federal funding to states such as Oregon. It would replace Obamacare’s income-based subsidies with age-based ones and phase out the Medicaid expansion, as well as limit the amount the federal government pays states for the program for low-income Americans. The GOP plan would largely scrap the law’s taxes and requirements to buy insurance.[Affordable Care Act revision would reduce insured numbers by 24 million, CBO projects]The proposed changes to Medicaid would be pronounced in states such as Oregon, which is already struggling to fund its program after greatly expanding eligibility. The state has tried to lower overall Medicaid costs by employing a dozen or so Cooperative Care Organizations, which contract with the state to insure enrollees. These groups are tasked with improving patients’ overall health.But those efforts have not been enough, and the state in January announced a $882 million shortfall in its Medicaid program.“Oregon would have been clobbered by repeal and replace” in the AHCA, said Jeff Goldsmith, a Portland native and health-policy expert who writes for the nonpartisan journal Health Affairs. “Many billions lost, and for a relatively poor state with limited fiscal capacity.”Walden was most deeply involved in drafting the Medicaid portion of the GOP plan, but he was quick to explain at the town halls how he would have done things differently. The measure should have allowed states to continue expanding their Medicaid programs through 2020 instead of cutting off that opportunity right away, he said..The issue is becoming increasingly toxic for lawmakers such as Walden, as liberal groups run ads against him and other Republicans supporting the effort. Walden did not refer to the AHCA by name during either of his town halls, nor did he lay out a timeline for when it might eventually get passed.“There’s no value in me coming to a bad plan that hurts people,” he said, prompting cries of “But you did!” from members of the audience.Attendees came armed with bright green, orange and yellow signs that read “Agree,” “Disagree” and “Answer the Question.” But they also expressed their feelings out loud throughout both meetings, which erupted frequently with boos and shouts, particularly when Walden appeared to support something Trump has said or done.He won applause only a few times, chiefly when several constituents thanked him for supporting the military. Many heatedly asked Walden to respond to Trump’s calls for building a wall along the Mexico border, his push for reducing science funding, his moves to ban refugees from majority-Muslim countries and his skepticism of climate change.“We don’t like climate-change deniers. We need your word you will not desert us on this,” said a woman named Connie.Walden noted several areas where he’s bucked Trump — including opposing the refugee ban and some elements of Trump’s proposed budget — but he was careful not to directly criticize the president’s style or approach. When he seemed to give Trump a pass on refusing to release his tax returns, people booed loudly.“It seems to me [that] candidates are better-served when they do make their returns public, but that’s all protected by privacy laws,” Walden said.The restive crowds did not seem to ruffle Walden, who extended each session to two hours instead of the single hour they were originally scheduled to run.“Come on, let’s do this the Oregon way — let’s be respectful of each other,” Walden said when interrupted by attendees.At another point, Walden even succeeded in making the crowd laugh, after a woman with several children asked why he did not criticize Trump more publicly for making derogatory statements about women.“I don’t speak out every time he says stuff because I don’t have time for that, frankly,” Walden responded.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/theres-a-word-that-no-longer-describes-the-federal-appeals-court-in-richmond/2017/04/12/3a82e0c4-193c-11e7-9887-1a5314b56a08_story.html?utm_term=.f81854ebf60b
There’s a word that no longer describes the federal appeals court in RichmondU.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit is housed at the Lewis F. Powell Jr. U.S. Courthouse in Richmond. (U.S. General Services Administration)By Ann E. Marimow   By Ann E. Marimow        April 13     Follow @amarimowA portfolio of Southern cases, genteel courtroom traditions and years of forceful conservative rulings shape the enduring image of the federal appeals court in Richmond.But the bench has shed its conservative label, undergoing a sea change in the past decade, and is poised to have an immediate impact on the fledgling Trump administration.Starting next month, the full court will take up the president’s entry ban for immigrants from some countries, followed by the case of a transgender teen whose battle to use a boy’s bathroom challenges the president’s new policy.Since taking office, President Trump has harshly criticized federal judges, specifically deriding the San Francisco-based appeals court — which put the first version of his travel ban on hold — as in “chaos” and “turmoil.”The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit, a Richmond-based venue the administration might once have found reliably hospitable, now has a higher proportion of judges tapped by Democrats than most of the nation’s 13 circuit courts. That includes the pan-Western 9th Circuit with its long-standing reputation among conservatives as the “nutty 9th.”Roger Gregory, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit, is interviewed in 2016 in his office in Richmond. (Steve Helber/Associated Press)A test of how far the 4th Circuit bench has tilted left will come May 8. The court announced this week that it would bypass the traditional three-judge panel and gather that day as a full complement to review Trump’s entry ban.Within the past year, judges at the historic Italianate courthouse, who descend from the bench to shake hands with the attorneys who have argued before them, have issued major opinions that would have been unimaginable two decades ago.The court said Republican lawmakers in North Carolina deliberately undercut the political power of African American voters through targeted voting restrictions. Judges sided with the Virginia transgender teen in the first round of his fight. And in a gun decision that went further than other appeals courts, the Richmond-based circuit ruled that the Second Amendment does not protect what it called “weapons of war” in a case trying to undo a Maryland ban on semiautomatic, military-style firearms.“There’s a persistent impression that’s long been out of date that this is a very conservative court,” said Steven Goldblatt, who directs the appellate litigation program at Georgetown University’s law school and regularly appears before the court. “It’s a different court, with many new judges who cannot be measured by decisions reached many years ago.”[Second federal judge blocks revised Trump travel ban]The court’s caseload consists of appeals from Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and the Carolinas.After federal judges in Maryland and Hawaii blocked critical sections of the president’s revised travel order in March, the Justice Department appealed. The administration also asked the 4th Circuit to put the Maryland judge’s opinion on hold and allow the ban to take effect immediately ahead of oral arguments next month.The first-floor library at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit in Richmond. (U.S. General Services Administration)The Maryland case applies only to the provision of Trump’s order that would have stopped new visas for travelers from six Muslim-majority countries: Iran, Libya, Sudan, Somalia, Syria and Yemen.The court also has been asked to rule again in the case of Gavin Grimm, the transgender teen challenging his school’s requirement that students use a bathroom that corresponds to their “biological sex.”The case returned to Richmond after the Supreme Court decided in March to put off a ruling on transgender rights and referred it back to the 4th Circuit to possibly look at broader constitutional questions.When it ruled in Grimm’s favor initially, the 4th Circuit cited the Obama administration’s position on transgender student rights. The Trump administration since has revoked federal guidelines that directed schools to allow transgender students to use a bathroom consistent with their gender identity.Last week, Senior Judge Andre M. Davis and Judge Henry F. Floyd — both nominated by President Barack Obama — took the unusual step of issuing a passionate statement placing Grimm among the pantheon of human rights leaders who confronted inequities through the courts. Grimm’s case will likely be heard in September.[Supreme Court sends transgender case back to lower court]For years, attorneys pursuing liberal-leaning policies viewed the 4th Circuit as hostile territory for civil rights and for criminal defendants, and as a reliable backstop on national security policies.But that is changing.Several national legal organizations that have the flexibility to choose where to wage their legal battles are deliberately turning to the 4th Circuit.The national groups that filed the most recent challenge to Trump’s entry ban in Maryland — the National Immigration Law Center and the American Civil Liberties Union — could have gone to other venues.“The court has become a much friendlier forum in civil rights cases, and it appears that criminal defendants have found a more open ear,” said Charlotte attorney Jake Sussman, who has defended inmates on death row and successfully challenged North Carolina’s ban on same-sex marriage.The 15-judge court looks very different today than it did two decades ago.In 1993, the bench had only one woman and no minorities. Three-quarters of the judges were nominated by Republican presidents, including leading conservative voices J. Michael Luttig and J. Harvie Wilkinson III, who in later years were on George W. Bush’s shortlist for the Supreme Court.In the late 1990s, the court issued opinions upholding restrictions on abortions and striking down a law allowing rape victims to sue their attackers in federal court. The court in 1999 overturned the requirement that police read suspects their rights, known as Miranda rights, before interrogating them. The Supreme Court later reaffirmed Miranda rights.On national security matters, the court often upheld the post-9/11 policies of the Bush administration, supporting the detention of enemy combatants. In death penalty cases, the Supreme Court reversed a number of 4th Circuit rulings in the early 2000s, leading to a measure of relief for inmates on death row.Conservatives were stunned in 2006 when Luttig announced his retirement to become general counsel for Boeing. At the time Obama took office, the split on the court still favored Republican nominees, 6 to 5. But with four vacancies, the administration saw an opportunity to remake the court — as it did on other circuit courts — and diversify the bench to better reflect the demographics of the country.Rakesh Kilaru, who worked in the White House Counsel’s Office during Obama’s tenure, clerked for Wilkinson in 2010, the year that three new judges joined the court.“The picture I have that is signed by all of the judges looks quite different than the picture you would have seen a few years before, and I think that’s something the president is quite proud of,” Kilaru said, referring to Obama.Among the 15 active judges on the court, there are five women, of whom one is African American, one Latino judge and two African American men, including Roger Gregory, the chief judge. Gregory was initially appointed by President Bill Clinton during a congressional recess and later was nominated by Bush at the urging of Virginia’s two senators.Judge Diana Gribbon Motz, a Clinton nominee, was for years on the losing side, particularly on national security cases. Motz wrote the recent opinion striking down North Carolina’s voting restrictions that she said “target African Americans with almost surgical precision.” The court now has a handful of Obama nominees on the bench to the left of her.A total of 10 of the active judges were nominated by Democrats.That leaves the 4th Circuit — along with three other circuits — with 67 percent of judges nominated by Democrats, ranking at the top, with the Boston-based 1st Circuit, the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit and the Federal Circuit in Washington, according to an analysis by Russell Wheeler, an expert on judicial nominations at the Brookings Institution.Wheeler cautioned that there is a spectrum of views and approaches even among judges nominated by the same president, but that the party of the president who chose a judge is not a bad predictor of a judge’s perspective.[Trump to inherit more than 100 court vacancies, plans to reshape the judiciary]The 4th Circuit judges and their stable of clerks assemble in Richmond about every six weeks for “court week” in the downtown courthouse that provided offices for Confederate President Jefferson Davis during the Civil War.Cases are argued before randomly assigned panels, and it is still possible to draw a panel of three judges all nominated by Republican presidents. But the odds have shifted, and, when the court agrees to a redo and reviews a case en banc, the balance tips decidedly left.In March, a full panel convened to revisit a 2-to-1 decision in favor of North Carolina county commissioners sued by the American Civil Liberties Union for opening their meetings with mostly Christian prayers.The court did not explain its highly unusual decision this week to skip the three-judge panel in the challenge to Trump’s revised entry ban. But the move initiated by the court suggests the judges recognize the need to move quickly on a contentious issue with national significance that appears destined to end up at the Supreme Court.Allison Orr Larsen, a William & Mary Law School professor who also clerked for Wilkinson, said the court may have lost its conservative label but not its sense of collegiality.“Even for those difficult, politically charged cases, I’m sure they will be thoughtfully deliberated by everyone regardless of the political affiliation,” she said. The court, she added, “puts a premium on collaboration.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/manafort-is-expected-to-register-as-a-foreign-agent/2017/04/12/6c7cdd58-1fb0-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.407728b38c16
Manafort is expected to register as a foreign agentPaul Manafort on the floor of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland last July. (Matt Rourke/Associated Press)By Tom Hamburger   By Tom Hamburger        April 12     Follow @thamburgerPaul Manafort, the former campaign chair for Donald Trump, has signaled that he plans to register as a foreign agent for his past work on behalf of political figures in Ukraine.If he files, Manafort would become the second former senior Trump adviser in recent weeks to retroactively acknowledge the need to disclose foreign work. Gen. Michael Flynn, the former White House national security adviser, filed a disclosure last month saying he had done work on behalf of Turkish interests.A spokesman for Manafort said Wednesday that the longtime political consultant considered a new filing under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) after receiving “formal guidance recently from the authorities” regarding work he and a colleague had performed on behalf of Ukrainian political interests.Manafort’s spokesman, Jason Maloni, said that “the work in question was widely known” and ended before Manafort began working with the Trump campaign, while emphasizing that the work “was not conducted on behalf of the Russian government.”Manafort’s ties to Ukraine have been controversial because he worked for a political figure, ­Viktor Yanukovych, who became aligned with Russian President Vladi­mir Putin.(Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)For nearly a decade, Manafort advised Yanukovych, who was elected president in 2010 but fled to Moscow four years later after demonstrations demanding his ouster.Manafort has done work advising political leaders around the globe, including some troubled figures, such as former Philippine president Ferdinand Marcos. Manafort expects to file any additional FARA disclosure amendments within the next 30 days. It was not clear Wednesday whether Manafort was considering filing reports based on foreign work he did outside of Ukraine.Manafort’s acknowledgment of the foreign registration issue came Wednesday afternoon, hours after a detailed statement was issued by the Podesta Group, which, along with another firm, helped Manafort with a campaign to improve Ukraine’s image in the United States between 2012 and 2014.The Podesta Group is led by Tony Podesta, the brother of Hillary Clinton’s campaign adviser, John Podesta.In filing the FARA report, Podesta’s firm disclosed that it was paid more than $1.2 million by a Brussels-based group advocating for Ukraine. The Podesta Group statement, from chief executive Kimberley Fritts, said the consulting group received legal counsel at the time that foreign agent registration was not required. Instead, Podesta disclosed its lobbying activities only as part of a standard congressional lobbying disclosure for work done in the United States.“But information brought to light in recent months prompted us to review our original registration determination,” Fritts said in the statement.FARA registration is required if funding comes from a foreign government or political party. Registration is required as a result of legislation passed in 1938 to counter German propagandists operating in the United States before the start of World War II.Initially, Podesta officials said they were advised that the Brussels group was a nonprofit that was not financed directly by Yanukovych or his political party.Last summer, the Associated Press reported that Manafort and business colleague Rick Gates had overseen the lobbying effort in Washington on behalf of Ukraine’s Party of Regions, which was being criticized in Congress for jailing a prominent political opponent. Gates joined Manafort in working for the Trump campaign and stayed on after Manafort resigned in August.That resignation followed the report from the AP and another from the New York Times that discussed payments Manafort allegedly received from the Party of Regions. Manafort has consistently denied any wrongdoing and said that reports of his receiving funds improperly are false.The involvement of the Justice Department creates a reminder of potential pitfalls for Manafort and others associated with the campaign who did work overseas. Flynn’s work for Turkey has received scrutiny as had Manafort’s work for the now controversial Ukrainian leader. It is a felony to fail to register under FARA. But legal experts said individuals typically avoid prosecution by cooperating with Justice Department recommendations.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/with-his-presidency-in-turmoil-trump-keeps-returning-to-past-victories--and-old-foes/2017/04/12/1fa2e496-1fb5-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.c45d0b1b16b4
With his presidency in turmoil, Trump keeps returning to past victories — and old foesPresident Trump, shown here in November 2016 with then-president Barack Obama, has made Obama and Hillary Clinton regular foils during his early months in office. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By Abby Phillip  and Jenna Johnson   By Abby Phillip  and Jenna Johnson        April 12     Follow @abbydphillip  Follow @wpjennaHe boasted of besting Jeb Bush in the Republican primary campaign for months after the former Florida governor had left the race. Even after securing the Republican Party’s nomination, he would rattle off his vote tally, noting how it dwarfed the performance of Ohio Gov. John Kasich.And now nearly three months into his presidency — and more than five months after the election — Trump continues to relive his political victory over Hillary Clinton and her allies.The counterpuncher in chief finds himself looking in the rearview mirror in search of sparring partners, repeatedly settling on Clinton, former president Barack Obama and others from the long-finished campaign.No one within earshot of the president in recent months has gone long without hearing about his electoral college victory over Clinton. And on Syria policy, the economy, infrastructure investments and the ongoing probe over his campaign’s ties to Russia, Trump has used Obama and his aides as foils for his administration.“One of the president’s best strategies is to have a straw man,” said former Trump aide Sam Nunberg. “It’s very good for the base.”(The Washington Post)Even as Trump is basking in one of his best political moments following his decision to authorize airstrikes against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Trump on Wednesday singled out his predecessor for criticism in a Fox Business News interview — despite repeatedly advising Obama not to use military force in the past.“What I did should have been done by the Obama administration a long time before I did it,” Trump said, while perched in an ornate chair at the White House. “I think Syria would be a lot better off right now than it has been.”[Has Trump become the ‘don’t blame me’ president?]The remark is just one in a series of comments in which Trump has sharply criticized the former president’s foreign and domestic policy, even leveling the unsubstantiated claim that Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower during last year’s presidential campaign.The pattern breaks a tradition of presidents taking a forward-looking approach to their presidencies.“In terms of the etiquette of the presidency, it’s very poor form,” said Stephen Hess, a presidential scholar at the Brookings Institution. “Presidents by and large don’t do this.”He added that Trump “simply can’t get over his infatuation with the Obamas and the Clintons.”But Trump supporters say the president is simply taking a page out of Obama’s playbook. Years after the worst of the economic recession had passed, Obama frequently castigated Republicans for driving the economy “into the ditch.” But even with that well-worn line, Obama rarely criticized former president George W. Bush by name.And former Obama aides note that he did, in fact, inherit an economy in a tailspin in early 2009, compared with the steady job growth and low unemployment rate inherited by Trump.“First and foremost, Obama was accurate in his descriptions and Trump is most decidedly not,” said Dan Pfeiffer, who was a former senior adviser to Obama. “There is an important tradition of presidents’ trying to pull the country together after elections, and Trump has tried to do the opposite by continuing to re-litigate the election.”During the presidential campaign, few issues would rouse Trump’s supporters like Clinton and Obama. In front of a screaming mass of thousands, he criticized Obama for being weak on the world stage and regularly accused Clinton of breaking the law with her use of a private email server, prompting chants of “Lock her up!” from the crowd.As president, Trump has changed little in that regard.“She was guilty on every charge,” Trump said of Clinton in the Fox Business interview. “[FBI Director James] Comey was very, very good to Hillary Clinton, that I can tell you. If he weren’t, she would be, right now, going to trial.”Trump has also pointed the finger at Obama, his aides and government staffers held over from the previous administration for damaging leaks and delays in moving his agenda forward. Most recently he has had former Obama national security adviser Susan E. Rice in his crosshairs, accusing her of using surveillance tools for political purposes; she has adamantly denied the allegation.[President Trump’s thoroughly confusing Fox Business interview, annotated]For a president who counts winning among the most important and constant things in his life, his unexpected electoral college win over Clinton has become a high-water mark for his political career — especially with few clear victories during the early months of his presidency.“The electoral college is very, very hard, they say almost impossible for a Republican to win. The odds are stacked,” Trump told union members at a conference in Washington last week. “They’re saying there’s no way to 270. Well, but there was a way to 306.”Trump often pitches the American people on his policies by framing them in opposition to those of his predecessor. At a recent meeting of CEOs in the White House, Trump contrasted his goal of implementing ready-to-go projects with infrastructure spending in Obama’s stimulus bill.“You know, there was a very large infrastructure bill that was approved during the Obama administration, a trillion dollars,” Trump said at a CEO town hall this month. “Nobody ever saw anything being built. I mean, to this day, I haven’t heard of anything that’s been built.”While Trump claimed Obama spent infrastructure funds on “social programs,” the largest chunk of spending dedicated to infrastructure in Obama’s 2009 stimulus package — more than $26 billion — went to highway infrastructure programs.Trump’s comments reflect a backward-looking approach to establishing Trump’s presidential legacy, Hess said.“Is your legacy defined by your predecessor? By your enemies?” Hess noted. “Presidents look ahead. Why would a president spend so much time looking back?”Nowhere has Trump’s focus on Obama been more acute than on Syria. In recent days, Trump has pointed to Obama’s failure to enforce his “red line” against the use of chemical weapons by Assad.Yet in June 2013 — after a deadly chemical weapons attack in the Damascus suburbs — Trump repeatedly praised Obama for not taking military action. In a tweet on June 15, 2013, Trump wrote: “We should stay the hell out of Syria, the ‘rebels’ are just as bad as the current regime. WHAT WILL WE GET FOR OUR LIVES AND $ BILLIONS? ZERO.”On the campaign trail, Trump continued to oppose any involvement in Syria and accused Clinton and some of his Republican opponents of wanting to start World War III.Even among Obama critics in the Republican Party, Trump’s focus on the past has little sway.“I don’t think it’s a secret that I disagreed with many of the decisions made by the Obama administration on foreign policy, but that presidency’s over,” Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said at a news conference last week. “We have a new presidency.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-administration-moving-quickly-to-build-up-nationwide-deportation-force/2017/04/12/7a7f59c2-1f87-11e7-be2a-3a1fb24d4671_story.html?utm_term=.c177d90e6086
Trump administration moving quickly to build up nationwide deportation forceThe Trump administration is quickly identifying ways to assemble the nationwide deportation force that President Trump promised on the campaign trail as he railed against the dangers posed by illegal immigration.An internal Department of Homeland Security assessment obtained by The Washington Post shows the agency has already found 33,000 more detention beds to house undocumented immigrants, opened discussions with dozens of local police forces that could be empowered with enforcement authority and identified where construction of Trump’s border wall could begin.The agency also is considering ways to speed up the hiring of hundreds of new Customs and Border Patrol officers, including ending polygraph and physical fitness tests in some cases, according to the documents.But these plans could be held up by the prohibitive costs outlined in the internal report and resistance in Congress, where many lawmakers are already balking at approving billions in spending on the wall and additional border security measures.Administration officials said the plans are preliminary and have not been reviewed by senior DHS management, but the assessment offers a glimpse of the department’s behind-the-scenes planning to carry out the two executive orders Trump signed in January to boost deportations and strengthen border enforcement.Why Trump’s wall contradicts today’s immigration trends.  View GraphicWhy Trump’s wall contradicts today’s immigration trends.Gillian Christensen, DHS’s acting spokeswoman, said the agency would not comment on what she called “pre-decisional documents.”Immigrant-rights advocates called the plans an unnecessary waste of money and resources that are aimed at scaring the nation’s 11 million undocumented immigrants, many of whom have lived in the country for more than a decade.Although Homeland Security Secretary John F. Kelly has said DHS is not pursuing mass deportations, Trump’s executive orders broadly expanded the pool of undocumented immigrants who are deemed a priority for removal.“This is an administration that very much is interested in setting up that mass deportation infrastructure and creating the levers of a police state,” said Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center. “In these documents, you have more proof and evidence that they’re planning to carry it out.”Congressional Democrats, who have opposed Trump’s immigration agenda, have expressed skepticism that Congress would agree to approve funding for many of the expensive initiatives.For example, Trump has called for CBP to hire 5,000 new agents and Immigration and Customs Enforcement an additional 10,000. The DHS assessment said the cost of hiring just 500 agents would reach $100 million.Republican leaders have proposed delaying a decision on Trump’s initial request of $1.5 billion for the wall and an additional $2.6 billion for more border security next year until after a new spending bill is approved this month in the hope of averting a government shutdown.(Monica Akhtar/The Washington Post)“We believe it would be inappropriate to insist on the inclusion of such funding in a must-pass appropriations bill,” Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and four Democratic colleagues wrote of the wall in a recent letter to the Senate’s Republican leadership.But the DHS assessment states that Border Patrol is moving forward with the construction of a border wall prototype with $20 million that lawmakers reappropriated in March, with completion of the prototype to be completed July 22.If Congress were to allocate more funds, the next step for CBP, according to the documents, would be to begin work with the Army Corps of Engineers to launch construction of 34 miles of levee wall or a border barrier in the Rio Grande Valley sector, which the agency calls the “highest-priority area,” as well as 14 additional miles of a border barrier in the San Diego sector.Cost concerns are peppered throughout the DHS assessment documents. Although ICE has identified 27 potential locations that could increase its detention space by 21,000 beds, that agency “will be unable to secure additional detention capability until funding has been identified,” according to the documents.In addition, CBP has made contingencies to expand its own detention capacity by 12,500 spaces, but the agency does not spell out whether funding is available for those slots.CBP also is laying the groundwork to potentially hold immigration-court hearings through video conferences at or near U.S. ports of entry if the government of Mexico agrees to house third-country immigrants awaiting adjudication in the U.S. legal system, the documents show.The Mexican government has balked at such a procedure, which would raise significant jurisdictional concerns. But if such a procedure were established, it would cost $50,000 per location for the video equipment, the DHS documents state.Alternative plans to send U.S. judges to the “port courts” are also being considered, although such a procedure would cost $400,000 per location.“They’re throwing a lot of public resources at a problem that should not be a priority, especially since the number of [border] crossers is down considerably,” said J. Kevin Appleby, a senior director at the Center for Migration Studies.Government figures show the number of people illegally crossing the border from Mexico has dropped sharply in the first two months of Trump’s administration. The DHS assessment states that 2,100 detention spaces previously reserved by CBP and ICE during an immigration surge late last year are unused.“Overall, it’s a wasted use of resources that could be used more efficiently,” Appleby said.One area in which the Trump administration could potentially increase its deportation capacity at relatively lower costs is expanding a program in which ICE grants local law enforcement agencies immigration enforcement powers traditionally reserved for the federal government.The program — known as 287(g), which is the federal code that established it in the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1996 — grew to encompass more than 70 local jurisdictions at its peak. But immigrant-rights groups charged that the program has resulted in civil rights abuses and racial profiling by poorly trained local police and lax supervision by ICE.The program fell out of favor in the latter years of President Obama’s administration, and there are now 37 jurisdictions participating at a cost of $24 million, according to the American Immigration Council.Trump’s executive orders instruct ICE to expand the program and allow CBP, which did not previously participate, to launch its own version — in hopes of creating a “force multiplier.”The DHS assessment states that the ICE review board is considering applications from 18 new jurisdictions and has identified 50 more that are interested in participating.Yet the documents again raise a cautionary flag about funding, stating that ICE probably will be unable to add more than 20 new 287(g) partnerships this year because of limited resources.“Up to now, they have really been using scare tactics to put on a show, to demonstrate to supporters they are tough on immigration,” Appleby said. “Eventually, they really have to produce results. Without congressional approval [for funding], they will not reach the deportation numbers under Obama. That will be the test. If in the first year, if there are not a significant number deported, how will they distinguish themselves from the previous administration?”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/trump-factor-has-party-operatives-wondering-how-big-is-the-house-playing-field/2017/04/12/c7ef60dc-1e2c-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.988f737762c5
Trump factor has party operatives wondering: How big is the House playing field?Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price arrives at a meeting of House Republicans on Capitol Hill April 4, 2017. Whether Democrats can win the Georgia special election to replace Price will say a lot about their chances of competing in 2018. (Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images)By Paul Kane   By Paul Kane        April 12     Follow @pkcapitolNot all special elections are created equal.In a span of eight days, Republicans are defending two House seats after the GOP incumbents left to join President Trump’s Cabinet. The first race, on Tuesday, gave Democrats something to boast about, given the close nature of the battle to succeed CIA Director Mike Pompeo.But the Pompeo seat, in culturally conservative southern Kansas, was never part of the Democratic calculus for reclaiming the House majority in next year’s midterm elections. It didn’t even make the overly ambitious list of 60 Republican seats that were dubbed “initial targets” that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee released Jan. 30. Instead, Democratic operatives just hope that Republican Ron Estes’s seven-point victory, in a district that Trump won by 27 points last year, is a sign of energy among liberal voters.Next week’s initial round of voting in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, vacated by the new health secretary, Tom Price, is much more critical for understanding the political landscape ahead.This wealthy, well-educated area north of Atlanta has effectively become ground zero for the Democratic effort to reclaim relevance on Capitol Hill. Of those initial targets, Democratic leaders have homed in on about 35 or so House seats in largely suburban areas they believe are home to the party’s future: elite professionals who were turned off by Trump’s behavior during the 2016 campaign and can be permanently forged into a new and winning Democratic coalition.(Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)Price’s seat, held by Republicans since 1978, is effectively serving as a beta test for the Democratic theory of the case for 2018 and beyond. Each side is pouring money into northern Georgia, with one estimate that nearly $20 million will have been spent by the time ballots are counted Tuesday.If, as expected, Democrat Jon Ossoff does not get 50 percent of the vote next Tuesday, he will head into a runoff against the top Republican two months later, and millions more will be spent. By contrast, total spending in the Kansas race will not come close to $1 million.Democrats began talking up Ossoff’s prospects more than two months ago at their issues retreat in Baltimore. “Watch the special election for Tom Price’s seat in suburban Atlanta,” Rep. Sean Maloney (D-N.Y.) said in an interview there.Maloney oversaw a review of what went wrong in 2016, when the six-seat gain for House Democrats well underperformed expectations. His advice is that the DCCC’s analytics and recruiting team should mostly focus on education levels and how rural versus suburban the district is to determine whether they should invest there.Should House Democrats write off rural congressional districts?Price’s seat is a case in point. Median household income is $83,000, according to census data, and almost 60 percent of residents have a college degree. The district went from delivering a nearly 24-point victory for Republican Mitt Romney in 2012, to a bare victory of 1 percent by Trump last fall.Republicans are betting that Trump’s performance in the Price district, along with dozens of others that were previously GOP strongholds in presidential elections, is an outlier and that voter behavior there will revert to traditional norms without Trump on the ballot.All of which makes it very difficult, for both parties, to nail down precisely which set of House seats are truly competitive with 2018 on the horizon.This Trump-driven volatility became clear in last week’s release of the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voter Index, a data-driven look at all 435 House districts that is the equivalent of the political Bible for many Washington insiders.How Donald Trump redrew the political mapThe top-line figures reinforce the steady trend of fewer and fewer competitive districts as most voters continue to pull the lever for one party and not split their tickets. There are now 72 House districts where the average presidential performance swings between both parties with a margin of 5 percent, down from 90 seats four years ago. That’s less than half as many competitive seats as there were 20 years ago.Trump won 230 House districts, while Mitt Romney won 226 of them as the Republican nominee in 2012.But beneath the surface, Trump’s nationalist, “America first” campaign scrambled coalitions and busted up the electorate.Take Price’s seat. After the 2012 elections, Price was considered to hold the 77th most Republican district in the nation, placing him in the top third of most conservative-leaning seats among Republican House members. After the 2016 results, taking Trump’s performance there into account and averaging it with Romney’s, Georgia’s 4th District is now the 165th most Republican seat, the Cook report estimates. That puts it in the bottom third, conservatively speaking, of the House GOP conference — quite a switch.Further, the Cook analysis found that 36 House districts switched their partisan preference for presidential candidates, including 21 that previously voted for Barack Obama in 2012 and switched to Trump four years later.One of those seats belongs to Rep. Cheri Bustos (D), whose western Illinois district went overwhelmingly for Obama, by almost 16 percentage points, in 2012. Four years later, those voters responded to Trump’s message, delivering him a narrow victory in that district.It’s a district that is dramatically different from Price’s old seat in the Atlanta suburbs. Bustos’s territory contains voters with a median household income of $45,000, and less than 19 percent of residents have a college degree.Trump created volatility all across the map.According to a study by Daily Kos Elections, 119 of the 435 House districts saw a swing of at least 10 percent from the 2012 presidential race to the 2016 contest, a dramatic change over four years.In Southern California, Reps. Mimi Walters (R) and Dana Rohrabacher (R) have never faced a difficult reelection contest. In the 2012 presidential race, Romney won their districts by the same big margin, 55 percent to 43 percent. Yet Trump lost both of those districts four years later.If the electorate looks next year as it used to look, these two Republicans will again cruise to reelection — and Republicans will win the Georgia special election.But if 2016 was a true turning point, there’s a whole new slate of seats that will see competitive races next year.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/12/if-the-kansas-shift-happened-nationally-democrats-would-have-a-stranglehold-on-the-house/?utm_term=.f23f11c2d36f
If the Kansas shift happened nationally, Democrats would have a stranglehold on the HouseRepublican Ron Estes won a closely-watched congressional race in Kansas on April 11, marking the first special election for a House seat vacated by a Republican since Trump took office. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)President Trump’s enthusiastic tweet about the results of the special election in Kansas’s 4th Congressional District on Tuesday — a “great win” that was accomplished “easily” — ignored the reality of the situation. In a district that now-CIA Director Mike Pompeo won by more than 30 points last year and which Trump himself won by 27 points, the Republican winner, Ron Estes, was victorious by less than seven percentage points.That’s a significant shift, that can be attributed to a lot of factors. But with other special elections looming, it’s worth reinforcing how dramatically bad such a shift would be for Republicans nationally. If, for example, that shift from Pompeo’s vote were applied to the 2016 House election results, the national map would move from a sea of dark red to something more like this:The math here isn’t complicated. The 2016 House results were distributed like this, according to data from the Associated Press. (In a number of districts, candidates ran unopposed; they’re marked in lighter color.)That gives us the current Republican majority in the House.If we were to shift the margin in each of those contested races in favor of the Democrats by the 25.2-point margin by which Pompeo outperformed Estes, the House suddenly becomes very, very Democratic.(We left the uncontested contests unchanged, for obvious reasons.)Of course, Pompeo was an incumbent, so we would expect him to do better than a less well-known Republican. We do have data on a political neophyte’s performance in that district recently, though: Donald Trump. According to the Daily Kos’ breakdown of the 2016 presidential results by congressional district, Pompeo did several percentage points better than Trump. (Trump did worse than the Republican candidate in nearly two-thirds of the 435 House districts. In 214 districts with Republican incumbents, Trump outperformed the incumbent in only 27, according to FiveThirtyEight’s Harry Enten.)It’s tricky to extrapolate outward from Trump’s margins in each district to House results, since Trump won some congressional districts that were held by Democrats. If we simply treat the presidential results as eliminating Pompeo’s incumbency, and assume that a non-Pompeo would have done about as well as Trump — certainly not a perfectly fair assumption — then we’d expect Estes to have done about 20.4 points better than he did.If we apply that shift to the House results? A smaller Democratic dominance.This thought experiment will not come to fruition for a variety of reasons: Special elections are weird things, and individual races are colored by a lot of things beyond national temperament. (The race in Kansas was also affected by complex politics at the state level.) Whether or not this holds nationally will be tested next week in Georgia’s 6th District, where there’s another special election. It’s safe to assume that the margins will be less dramatic.But a sharp shift to the left in even deep-red parts of the country has obvious implications for the GOP that this experiment simply lays bare: the potential for a electoral disaster.Which, in a nutshell, is why the victory in Kansas was not, for Republicans, “great.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republican-in-kansas-pulls-ahead-in-race-for-us-house-seat/2017/04/11/cde8126e-1ecb-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.f19056044249
Republicans fend off strong challenge to hold on to House seat in KansasWICHITA —  Republicans fended off a surprising Democratic challenge on Tuesday in the first special election of the year for a House seat vacated by a Republican lawmaker who became part of President Trump’s administration.Ron Estes, the GOP state treasurer, was buoyed by an 11th-hour intervention from national Republicans, Vice President Pence and Trump himself in his bid to retain the seat of former congressman Mike Pompeo, who is now the CIA director. In a victory speech, Estes told voters he’d “repeal and replace Obamacare” and fight for a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.“Republicans emerged victorious in the first contested special election of the 2018 cycle,” said National Republican Congressional Committee chairman Steve Stivers, a congressman from Ohio.With 99 percent of ballots counted, Estes led Democrat James Thompson, a lawyer making his first bid for office, by 8 points. Last year, Pompeo won reelection by 31 points in a race Democrats did not seriously contest.“I probably shouldn’t say this, Mr. Estes did not beat us,” said Thompson at his election-night party. “It took a president of the United States, the vice president, the speaker of the House, a senator coming into our state, and a bunch of lies to try and drum up a vote.”Democrat James Thompson, a candidate for Kansas' 4th Congressional District, speaks during a debate in Wichita, Kan. (Bo Rader/AP)Kansas Republicans’ resilience dashed Democratic hopes — which surged over the weekend — of slicing into the majority of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.). It also may dampen that party’s hopes of performing well in the three House seats vacated by Republicans who joined the Trump administration — most significantly in Georgia, where Democrat Jon Ossoff is leading in the April 18 contest to replace Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price against a crowded field of GOP candidates.Yet holding the 4th Congressional District — which Trump captured by 27 points in November, and is the home to Koch Industries — took more work, and money, than Republicans had expected. Thompson easily won voters who cast their ballots early and was poised to carry Wichita’s Sedgwick County, which Trump won by 18 points.In the campaign’s final weekend, the NRCC spent close to $100,000 on the race, and the GOP-allied Congressional Leadership Fund super PAC paid for tens of thousands of get-out-the-vote phone calls. President Trump even recorded a call for the Republican and sent an Election Day tweet calling Estes a “wonderful guy” who would help him on “Healthcare & Tax Cuts (Reform).”The victory helped House Republicans retain a 23-seat advantage over Democrats, despite entering the two-week recess short on their major legislative goals. Estes did not focus on Trump in his race, and though he is expected to be a reliable vote for Republicans in the House — he said on Monday he would not join either right-wing or moderate caucuses — he had criticized the GOP health-care bill that was pulled before the congressional recess.Thompson, a 46-year-old U.S. Army veteran who had caucused for Bernie Sanders, fought a stronger-than-expected race that Democrats said would put more races on the map in 2018.But progressives were critical of the party for letting the race play out without a major investment. “We lose when we don’t fight, period,” said Neil Sroka, a spokesman for the progressive group Democracy for America, in a tweet.Without the boogeyman of the Obama administration, and without the threat of Hillary Clinton picking a judge to fill an open Supreme Court seat, Republicans resorted to arguing that Thompson would use constituents’ tax money to fund abortions. Until it finally spent some money on get-out-the-vote calls, the DCCC stayed away for fear that it would nationalize the race.The contest began with Pompeo’s Jan. 23 departure from Congress, which attracted little national attention until the start of April. The Cook Political Report marked the race as “safe” for Republicans, downgrading the party’s chances only after the final weekend’s scramble.Inside the district, however, both parties saw early potential for an upset. Estes, a businessman who entered politics in 2004, had only ever won landslides in the 4th District for state office.But in Topeka, the state capital, he became associated with a Republican governing team that has presided over a weak economic recovery and a series of budget deficits. Democrats — and increasingly, voters — came to blame Gov. Sam Brownback’s supply-side tax cuts, which ate into the state’s revenue.In 2016, as Republicans won across the country, the party lost ground in Kansas. Democrats gained 12 seats in the state House and one seat in the state Senate, after moderate anti-Brownback Republicans defeated conservatives in a series of primaries. On Election Day, Trump carried the 4th District easily — but Republicans lost three of their party’s state House seats.The Democratic Party, meanwhile, underwent an evolution of its own. Sanders crushed Hillary Clinton here in the 2016 caucuses, and many Sanders activists stayed inside the party to win leadership positions. When Pompeo’s seat opened, former state treasurer Dennis McKinney — who was defeated in 2010 by Estes — was initially seen as the Democratic front-runner. But the antiabortion McKinney lost a tight party contest to the pro-abortion rights, economically populist Thompson.While Estes was tied up in Topeka working on the controversial state budget, Thompson barnstormed the district.In the final 24 hours of the race, the Democrat attended a Seder with Jewish voters, recorded a “thank you” video for volunteers, shook hands at a breakfast for Learjet retirees, and (through a translator) sat for an interview with Wichita’s Spanish-language radio station. Estes rallied with Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and the national political director of the Chamber of Commerce, then cast his vote.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/spicer-apologizes-after-receiving-sharp-criticism-for-saying-hitler-didnt-use-chemical-weapons/2017/04/11/fe7e9f88-1ef3-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.30128ba48f01
Spicer apologizes after receiving sharp criticism for saying Hitler didn’t use chemical weaponsWhite House press secretary Sean Spicer apologized on Tuesday for remarks that were viewed as downplaying the atrocities of the Holocaust.In criticizing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s alleged use of chemical weapons during a Tuesday briefing, Spicer said that even Adolf Hitler did not sink to that level of warfare and “was not using the gas on his own people in the same way that Assad is doing,” despite Hitler’s use of gas chambers to kill millions of Jews and others.Following hours of controversy, Spicer walked back his remarks late in the day.“Frankly, I mistakenly used an inappropriate and insensitive reference to the Holocaust for which, frankly, there is no comparison,” Spicer said in an interview with CNN’s Wolf Blitzer on Tuesday evening that led the nightly newscasts of all three major networks. “And for that, I apologize. It was a mistake to do that.”Blitzer, the son of Holocaust survivors, asked Spicer if he knew that the Nazis took Jews, gays, gypsies and others to death camps “to slaughter them in these poison-gas chambers.”(Newseum)“Yes, clearly I am aware of that,” Spicer said, adding that his original comments were meant to focus just on Assad’s use of chemical weapons dropped from aircraft. “It was a mistake to do that and, again, that’s why I should have just stayed on topic, stayed focused on the actions that Assad had taken and the horrible atrocities that he had committed against his own people.”President Trump and his aides rarely apologize for controversial remarks or stating factual errors and often take a confrontational approach when challenged. Spicer’s decision to appear on CNN late in the day was a sign of how badly his remarks were being received both inside and outside the White House.Spicer brought up Hitler unprompted during Tuesday’s White House briefing when asked about the alliance between Assad and Russia.“We didn’t use chemical weapons in World War II,” Spicer said. “You had . . . someone as despicable as Hitler who didn’t even sink to the using chemical weapons.”Later in the briefing, a reporter asked Spicer to explain what he meant.“I think when you come to sarin gas, there was no — he was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing,” Spicer said, mispronouncing Assad’s name.Spicer’s comments drew stunned looks from reporters, and the mouth of one White House press aide seemed to fall open in a half gasp as he spoke. Reporters tried to correct Spicer, to remind him of the millions gassed in concentration camps, with one person shouting out: “He gassed the Jews!”The stark warning, delivered in Seoul after the vice president went to the military demarcation that separates the two Koreas, could revive speculation that the White House is considering military action against the regime in Pyongyang. READ THE STORY  Kim Hong-Ji/ReutersBuy PhotoWait 1 second to continue.“I understand your point, thank you,” Spicer said. “He brought them into the Holocaust center, I understand that. But what I am saying in the way that Assad used them, where he went into towns, dropped them down to innocent, into the middle of towns . . . so the use of it. And I appreciate the clarification there. That was not the intent.”Before the briefing was even over, White House press aides realized the magnitude of Spicer’s mistake. Shortly after he stepped away from the lectern, Spicer put out a statement again trying to explain what he meant.“In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust,” he said. “I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable.”Social media sites lit up with outrage, concern and mockery.Trump and several people close to him have previously faced accusations of anti-Semitism and making insensitive remarks regarding the Holocaust.During the campaign, Trump tweeted a graphic attacking Hillary Clinton that was circulating in anti-Semitic circles online that featured a Star of David on top of piles of money. Although the image was deleted, Trump later said he wished his staff had left it in place and allowed him to defend it. In January, the White House released a statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day that made no mention of Jews or the anti-Semitic views that fueled the Holocaust.When confronting these accusations, Trump and those close to him note that his daughter Ivanka, son-in-law and their children are Jewish. On Monday night, the White House hosted a kosher Seder dinner for staff members. Trump did not attend but tweeted: “Happy Passover to everyone celebrating in the United States of America, Israel, and around the world. #ChagSameach.”After the briefing, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum tweeted a video showing footage taken when U.S. forces liberated a concentration camp in Germany in April 1945.Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect Executive Director Steven Goldstein, a frequent critic of Trump, released a statement accusing Spicer of having “engaged in Holocaust denial” and called for his firing. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said Trump should fire Spicer, accusing him of “downplaying the horror of the Holocaust.”About four hours after the briefing ended, Spicer appeared on CNN to apologize for his remarks.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/white-house-tells-agencies-to-come-up-with-a-plan-to-shrink-their-workforces/2017/04/11/79961738-1efd-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.e46628e603da
White House tells agencies to come up with a plan to shrink their workforcesOffice of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney listens while President Donald Trump speaks before a meeting with CEOs on the White House campus April 11, 2017. (Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images)By Lisa Rein  and Damian Paletta   By Lisa Rein  and Damian Paletta        April 11     Follow @ReinlwapoThe White House on Wednesday will instruct all federal agencies to submit a plan by June 30 to shrink their civilian workforces, offering the first details on how the Trump administration aims to reduce the size and scope of the government.A governmentwide hiring freeze the president imposed on Jan. 23 will be lifted immediately. But Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney told reporters Tuesday that agency leaders must start “taking immediate actions” to save money and reduce their staffs. Mulvaney also said they must come up with a long-term blueprint to cut the number of federal workers starting in October 2018.“This does not mean that agencies will be free to hire willy nilly,” Mulvaney said of the return to hiring. He called the restructuring — laid out in a 14-page memo — a “smarter plan, a more strategic plan, a more surgical plan” to rein in a bureaucracy that President Trump has called too big and bloated.By following a budget the president proposed in March that calls for drastic cuts across most of the government, Mulvaney said some agencies such as the Defense Department and Veterans Affairs will add staff, while others, like the Environmental Protection Agency, will “end up paring” full-time employees “even greater than they would have . . . during the hiring freeze.”“The executive branch of government has never been rebuilt,” Mulvaney said, claiming this effort will be more far-reaching than those of previous administrations.(Claritza Jimenez/The Washington Post)But lawmakers have a significant say in how much money is provided to federal agencies and many — including Republicans — object to Trump’s proposed budget cuts. Many large-scale changes to the government — for example, a consolidation of offices with similar missions — would have to be approved by Congress.Trump has asked the White House to “start from scratch” and intends to solicit ideas not just from business leaders but also from the public, Mulvaney said.The White House is requiring agencies to improve the effectiveness and accountability of their employees, by rewarding high performers and clearing a straighter path to take action against poor ones.Mulvaney was careful not to specify how much the White House wants to cut the workforce of 2.1 million civil servants, saying it will be up to agencies to determine where they find duplicative or “nonessential” programs or services that can be provided instead by state or local governments or private companies. He also declined to specify whether layoffs, buyouts or early retirement offers would be on the table. Personnel and budget experts say these are inevitable and will be costly to put in place.“There are going to be some places where they have the ability to reduce size immediately and they may be called upon to do that in order to line up with the president’s priorities,” Mulvaney said of agency leaders. “There may be other places where they don’t have that flexibility, and they’ll have to figure out a way over the course of time to, through ordinary attrition, to get to where they need to be.”Based on Trump’s spending plan, some agencies would see cuts of more than 20 percent — and the State Department would be 29 percent; EPA, 31 percent — in hits that would fundamentally alter their missions.White House officials have said that more should be done to shift operations to private-sector companies.It’s unclear how many new hires were halted by the freeze, which over the two-and-half months it was in effect exempted bigger swaths of the government as lawmakers complained and agency heads became concerned about hurting their day-to-day operations without replacing departing staff.Democrats oppose the proposed cuts and have pushed back against Trump’s calls for reducing the federal workforce. Many Republicans have said there should be major budget cuts, but others oppose the across-the-board reductions. For example, a number of Republicans have opposed big cuts at the State Department and agencies that deliver foreign aid, saying this will hurt national security.The federal government is expected to spend $4.091 trillion in the year that begins Oct. 1, but around 70 percent of that will go toward Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, interest on the debt and other programs that must be funded.The remaining funds — roughly half of which go to the military — must be approved by Congress each year. The federal workforce is largely funded through these appropriations, and congressional approval for any plan is likely necessary before the major changes by the Trump administration.The White House push comes during a delicate point in negotiations on Capitol Hill. Congressional leaders are trying to reach an agreement to fund the government after the end of April.If Democrats believe the Trump administration will seek a major cut in the federal workforce, they could harden their stance with Republicans seeking other cuts. Likewise, many Republicans may be torn between backing the White House plan, which outlines the leaner government for which GOP rhetoric has long called. The support of several dozen Democrats will likely be necessary for the short-term spending bill to pass the House later this month.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/white-house-tells-agencies-to-come-up-with-a-plan-to-shrink-their-workforces/2017/04/11/79961738-1efd-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.ed67d28afeda
White House tells agencies to come up with a plan to shrink their workforcesOffice of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney listens while President Donald Trump speaks before a meeting with CEOs on the White House campus April 11, 2017. (Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images)By Lisa Rein  and Damian Paletta   By Lisa Rein  and Damian Paletta        April 11     Follow @ReinlwapoThe White House on Wednesday will instruct all federal agencies to submit a plan by June 30 to shrink their civilian workforces, offering the first details on how the Trump administration aims to reduce the size and scope of the government.A governmentwide hiring freeze the president imposed on Jan. 23 will be lifted immediately. But Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney told reporters Tuesday that agency leaders must start “taking immediate actions” to save money and reduce their staffs. Mulvaney also said they must come up with a long-term blueprint to cut the number of federal workers starting in October 2018.“This does not mean that agencies will be free to hire willy nilly,” Mulvaney said of the return to hiring. He called the restructuring — laid out in a 14-page memo — a “smarter plan, a more strategic plan, a more surgical plan” to rein in a bureaucracy that President Trump has called too big and bloated.By following a budget the president proposed in March that calls for drastic cuts across most of the government, Mulvaney said some agencies such as the Defense Department and Veterans Affairs will add staff, while others, like the Environmental Protection Agency, will “end up paring” full-time employees “even greater than they would have . . . during the hiring freeze.”“The executive branch of government has never been rebuilt,” Mulvaney said, claiming this effort will be more far-reaching than those of previous administrations.(Claritza Jimenez/The Washington Post)But lawmakers have a significant say in how much money is provided to federal agencies and many — including Republicans — object to Trump’s proposed budget cuts. Many large-scale changes to the government — for example, a consolidation of offices with similar missions — would have to be approved by Congress.Trump has asked the White House to “start from scratch” and intends to solicit ideas not just from business leaders but also from the public, Mulvaney said.The White House is requiring agencies to improve the effectiveness and accountability of their employees, by rewarding high performers and clearing a straighter path to take action against poor ones.Mulvaney was careful not to specify how much the White House wants to cut the workforce of 2.1 million civil servants, saying it will be up to agencies to determine where they find duplicative or “nonessential” programs or services that can be provided instead by state or local governments or private companies. He also declined to specify whether layoffs, buyouts or early retirement offers would be on the table. Personnel and budget experts say these are inevitable and will be costly to put in place.“There are going to be some places where they have the ability to reduce size immediately and they may be called upon to do that in order to line up with the president’s priorities,” Mulvaney said of agency leaders. “There may be other places where they don’t have that flexibility, and they’ll have to figure out a way over the course of time to, through ordinary attrition, to get to where they need to be.”Based on Trump’s spending plan, some agencies would see cuts of more than 20 percent — and the State Department would be 29 percent; EPA, 31 percent — in hits that would fundamentally alter their missions.White House officials have said that more should be done to shift operations to private-sector companies.It’s unclear how many new hires were halted by the freeze, which over the two-and-half months it was in effect exempted bigger swaths of the government as lawmakers complained and agency heads became concerned about hurting their day-to-day operations without replacing departing staff.Democrats oppose the proposed cuts and have pushed back against Trump’s calls for reducing the federal workforce. Many Republicans have said there should be major budget cuts, but others oppose the across-the-board reductions. For example, a number of Republicans have opposed big cuts at the State Department and agencies that deliver foreign aid, saying this will hurt national security.The federal government is expected to spend $4.091 trillion in the year that begins Oct. 1, but around 70 percent of that will go toward Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, interest on the debt and other programs that must be funded.The remaining funds — roughly half of which go to the military — must be approved by Congress each year. The federal workforce is largely funded through these appropriations, and congressional approval for any plan is likely necessary before the major changes by the Trump administration.The White House push comes during a delicate point in negotiations on Capitol Hill. Congressional leaders are trying to reach an agreement to fund the government after the end of April.If Democrats believe the Trump administration will seek a major cut in the federal workforce, they could harden their stance with Republicans seeking other cuts. Likewise, many Republicans may be torn between backing the White House plan, which outlines the leaner government for which GOP rhetoric has long called. The support of several dozen Democrats will likely be necessary for the short-term spending bill to pass the House later this month.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-administration-suspends-public-disclosures-of-sanctuary-cities/2017/04/11/7ea7f078-1ec8-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.7adeba03c0eb
Trump administration suspends public disclosures of ‘sanctuary cities’People attend a rally and vigil against President Trump's immigration policies at Brooklyn Borough Hall on April 9. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images)By David Nakamura  and Maria Sacchetti   By David Nakamura  and Maria Sacchetti        April 11     Follow @davidnakamura  Follow @mariasacchettiThe Trump administration has temporarily suspended the publication of weekly reports detailing cities and counties that refuse to honor federal immigration detainers over concerns about the accuracy of those lists.U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which began making the lists public last month, is reviewing its reporting methodology after several law enforcement agencies complained that they were erroneously included in the report.“While this analysis is ongoing, the publication of [the report] will be temporarily suspended,” said Sarah Rodriguez, a deputy press secretary at ICE. She added that the agency expects to resume publication after the review is completed, but she did not specify a time frame.“ICE remains committed to publishing the most accurate information available regarding declined detainers across the country,” she said in a statement.ICE began publicizing the list of jurisdictions after President Trump signed a pair of executive orders in January to ramp up immigration arrests and deportations at the southern U.S. border and inside the country.To that end, Trump directed federal officials to publish a weekly list of declined detainers and the immigrants who were released by so-called sanctuary cities. He also threatened to block some federal grant funding to those cities that fail to comply with federal detainer notices for immigrants subject to deportation. Administration officials have said immigrants who commit crimes but are released pose a serious threat.But the weekly lists included in the Declined Detainer Outcome Report contained several errors that rankled local law enforcement officials. For instance, one report incorrectly claimed that Franklin County in Iowa, Franklin County in New York, Franklin County in Pennsylvania and Montgomery County in Iowa had ignored immigration detainers they had never received.Williamson and Bastrop counties in Texas, Chester County in Pennsylvania and Richmond County in North Carolina were also incorrectly included in the list.On Tuesday, an official said the errors were a main reason they suspended the report.“We’ve identified that there have been some data-processing errors,” said David Lapan, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees ICE. “That’s why the decision was made: Let’s take a pause and make sure that we look at this holistically and make sure that we’re getting it as accurate as possible.”A spokesman for Attorney General Jeff Sessions said the report’s suspension would not affect the Justice Department’s plans to withhold federal grant money from sanctuary cities.But that timeline is unclear, Lapan said, because the agencies have not agreed on a definition of the term “sanctuary.”Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors restrictions on immigration, said the report could be a valuable tool for Trump.“I think they got out of the gate quicker and they weren’t quite ready yet,” he said. “They’ve got to go back and set up a more systematic way of gathering the information. I don’t have any doubt they will. It just will take a while.”But the American Civil Liberties Union, which considers immigration detainers unconstitutional, said it hoped that ICE would not issue the report again.“The ACLU is pleased the administration has halted these deeply flawed and misleading reports,” staff attorney Cody Wofsy said in a statement. “It should reconsider its entire campaign of bullying localities for their lawful and responsible choices.”Some cities have passed laws that restrict the collection of citizenship status by local law enforcement, citing concerns that immigrants who have committed relatively minor infractions, such as traffic violations, could be harassed or deported.The Trump administration has listed scores of jurisdictions — including in Virginia, Maryland, California and Texas — that have allegedly not cooperated with federal authorities.But last month, Seattle sued the administration over Trump’s executive order on sanctuary cities, calling it unconstitutional.Rodriguez said the publication of weekly lists “has already sparked important conversations between ICE and law enforcement agencies across the nation, and the revised report will add to this discussion.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/partisan-battles-over-nominees-pose-real-danger-for-supreme-court-chief-justice-says/2017/04/11/62e89c2c-1ee9-11e7-a0a7-8b2a45e3dc84_story.html?utm_term=.8acf245c5f02
Partisan battles over nominees pose ‘real danger’ for Supreme Court, chief justice saysChief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. arrives for the swearing-in ceremony of Judge Neil M. Gorsuch, the newest member of the Supreme Court. (Joshua Roberts/Reuters)By Robert Barnes   By Robert Barnes        April 11     Follow @scotusreporterTROY, N.Y. —  Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said Tuesday that the Supreme Court has gone about its work in a “completely nonpartisan way” since the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, but that the bitter political battle waged over confirming Scalia’s replacement poses a “real danger” for the court.At a question-and-answer session at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, university President Shirley Ann Jackson asked Roberts about the “extremely partisan confirmation process” that saw Senate Republicans refuse to consider President Barack Obama’s choice of Judge Merrick Garland, and Democrats’ attempt to block President Trump’s choice of newly confirmed Justice Neil M. Gorsuch.“I want to point out one thing — that throughout this whole process, the Supreme Court has been quietly going about its business of deciding the cases before it, according to the Constitution, in a completely nonpartisan way,” Robert said. “We’ve done it for the past 14 months with one vacancy, and we’ll do it going in the future now that we have a full complement.”But he added: “It is a real danger that the partisan hostility that people see in the political branches will affect the nonpartisan activity of the judicial branch. It is very difficult I think for a member of the public to look at what goes on in confirmation hearings these days, which is a very sharp conflict in political terms between Democrats and Republicans, and not think that the person who comes out of that process must similarly share that partisan view of public issues and public life.”Confirmations for the sitting Supreme Court justices were not nearly as partisan as Judge Gorsuch’s  View GraphicConfirmations for the sitting Supreme Court justices were not nearly as partisan as Judge Gorsuch’sIt is a familiar stance for Roberts, but one he has had to repeat more often as Supreme Court confirmation votes for his new colleagues follow party lines. It is also one for which he is criticized by some.The court’s rulings on major issues often conclude with the five members appointed by Republican presidents on one side, and the four nominated by Democrats on the other. The same is true on high-profile cases in federal courts around the country, where judges routinely divide along the lines of the party of the president who nominated them.But Roberts insisted that judges shed political leanings when they join the bench.“The new justice is not a Republican, not a Democrat, he is a member of the Supreme Court,” Roberts said. “But it is hard for people to understand that when they see the process that leads up to it.”On other issues, Roberts repeated that he opposed allowing televised coverage of the Supreme Court and that having life tenure for federal judges is “incredibly important for what we do.”One suggestion about reducing the political importance of Supreme Court nominations is having justices serve for a set number of years. Roberts was not asked specifically about that. But he said not having to worry about public approval was essential for judges to protect constitutional rights.He mentioned a case involving the Westboro Baptist Church, the group that protests military funerals and blames natural disasters on society’s tolerance of gay rights. Roberts said the group’s speech is “absolutely hateful,” but also protected by the Constitution, which is what he wrote for a nearly unanimous court in 2011.“If I hadn’t had life tenure and had to stand for election the next year, I wouldn’t vote for me,” he said.Asked about cameras in the courtroom, Roberts agreed that televised coverage of the court would lead to a greater understanding of how it operates. “Our job, however, is not to educate the public,” but to decide cases, he said.Oral arguments are free-flowing affairs where justices “follow along with the dynamic,” not worrying about how a hypothetical or sharp question will sound. If the justices had to think about how the public might judge a sound bite, he said, “we might end up talking like they do in Congress.”Roberts noted that it was unusual for him to be making an appearance at a college like Rensselaer, dedicated to instruction on technology, science, engineering and mathematics. The link is that Jackson serves on the Smithsonian’s board of regents, which Roberts heads because of his position as chief justice.To prepare, he said, he looked for connections to science among his 16 predecessors as chief justice. “As it turns out, there are very few,” he said. His own contribution, he said, will be giving this speech.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-promised-an-unpredictable-foreign-policy-to-allies-it-looks-incoherent/2017/04/11/21acde5e-1a3d-11e7-9887-1a5314b56a08_story.html?utm_term=.9c9c37b87ed6
Trump promised an ‘unpredictable’ foreign policy. To allies, it looks incoherent.President Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel participate in a joint news conference in the East Room of the White House on March. 17. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)By Kevin Sullivan  and Karen Tumulty   By Kevin Sullivan  and Karen Tumulty        April 11     Follow @sullivank  Follow @ktumultyDuring his presidential campaign, Donald Trump summed up his approach to foreign policy this way: “We must as a nation be more unpredictable.”But now that he is commander in chief, anxious allies say that unpredictability might be better described as incoherence — a dangerous tendency at a moment of high tension with Russia and Syria, and with U.S. warships heading toward the Korean Peninsula.In recent weeks, the president has held meetings with his counterparts from other countries. But in some cases, those sessions have only heightened doubts that Trump has a clear sense of what direction he intends to take U.S. foreign policy.Few if any world leaders, for example, have had as much experience in dealing with U.S. presidents as German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is on her third.During their White House meeting last month, Merkel tried to pin down Trump on one of the top concerns of U.S. trading partners: a proposed “border adjustment tax” to be imposed on imported goods. Publicly, Trump has signaled an openness to the idea, but he also said it has drawbacks.President Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping walk at the Mar-a-Lago estate in West Palm Beach, Fla., on April 7. (Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images)“Don’t worry,” Trump told Merkel, holding his thumb and forefinger close together. “It will only be a little bit.”Trump’s breezy answer — and Merkel’s exasperation — has been the talk of diplomatic circles in Washington and Europe.“So all the chancellor of Germany knows is that, ‘It will only be a little bit,’ ” said a senior European diplomat in Washington, holding up his fingers as Trump did, and repeating an account confirmed by others in anxious embassies in Washington. “It’s very puzzling.”The White House did not reply to a request for information about the exchange between Trump and Merkel.Ambiguity has always had a place in diplomacy, of course. But Trump adds to that a freestyle approach to international relations. He has a disregard for norms and protocol, an impulsive nature and a tendency toward making contradictory statements.Compounding the chaos is the fact that those who claim to speak for Trump — Cabinet officials and top White House advisers — also have offered conflicting pronouncements on basic questions about the direction of U.S. policy.[With both the U.S. and North Korea saber rattling, is conflict imminent?]President Trump and Jordan’s King Abdullah II hold a news conference in the Rose Garden of the White House on April 5. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)Trump aides boasted, for instance, of a “positive” chemistry between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping during their two-day session at Trump’s Florida resort over the weekend.But there was no apparent progress on U.S. efforts to have China put pressure on North Korea. And by Tuesday, Trump was engaging in diplomacy via Twitter.“I explained to the President of China that a trade deal with the U.S. will be far better for them if they solve the North Korean problem!” he tweeted, suggesting that national security concerns might override his long-standing promise to crack down on Chinese trade practices.Four minutes later, Trump followed with another tweet suggesting he might be leaning toward unilateral action: “North Korea is looking for trouble. If China decides to help, that would be great. If not, we will solve the problem without them! U.S.A.”In interviews over the past few weeks with a half-dozen foreign ambassadors based in Washington, most complained — diplomatically, of course — that thin lines of communication have made it difficult for them to explain U.S. intentions to officials in their home capitals. That is creating strain on traditionally solid alliances, they said.“Nobody can tell us on Russia what the American policy is, on Syria what the American policy is, on China what the American policy is,” one ambassador said. “I’m not sure there is a policy. They will listen to me and tell me, ‘We will get back to you when there is a policy.’ ”The ambassadors spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid straining relations with the new administration. Or as one put it: “We don’t want to be too hard on them at the very beginning.”The diplomats said the problem was partly caused by a new administration still in transition and focused on health care, tax reform and other domestic issues. But as the weeks have passed, allies are growing more concerned that limited communication could lead to misunderstandings if a diplomatic or security crisis erupted somewhere in the world.“I don’t know what will happen,” one said. “You had a president who took three months to take a decision, and now you have one who takes three seconds. It’s very worrying.”[Trump confronts the contradictions of his foreign policy rhetoric]Several diplomats said that early Trump meetings with Merkel, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and British Prime Minister Theresa May also raised concerns over Trump’s unorthodox style of working largely without detailed notes and speaking off the cuff.“He doesn’t have a paper in front of him. . . . It’s up to the visitor to declare the agenda,” one said. “He just sits there. It’s like you are in a bar, and you just start talking to him.”White House officials insist that the president has been fully briefed before his meetings with foreign leaders, and that adequate advance work has been done in bilateral sessions that precede them.But they also note that the specifics of Trump administration policy are still a work in progress.“It’s the early days. A lot of this stuff hasn’t been worked through,” said Michael Anton, who runs communications for the National Security Council.Trump’s priority in these early meetings with foreign leaders, Anton added, is “relationship-building, airing the issues.”While some diplomats and leaders puzzle over how to decode an opaque and often contradictory presidency, they have figured out one language to which Trump responds: flattery.In his joint appearance with Trump, Jordan’s King Abdullah II lathered the president with praise for a “holistic approach” to the Middle East, which he said is “a move in the right direction.”It was their second meeting since Trump’s election, and Trump returned the compliments, calling Abdullah a “warrior.” Their joint news conference was the first of Trump’s presidency to be held in the Rose Garden.[Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spends his first weeks isolated from an anxious bureaucracy]Outside of choreographed photo ops, the day-to-day situation is far different.Several envoys described frustration at the slow pace of appointments to critical jobs, especially in the State Department, which has sometimes left them struggling to get even the most basic information.“When you reach out to them, it’s like you are reaching out to a body that has a head and legs but no torso. The blood is not flowing from above to below,” one said.State Department spokesman R.C. Hammond said that a transition is underway that will “continue on for many months.” He added that both Trump and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson are determined to find a new way of conducting international relations because the old one was not working.“People are starting to learn the new language,” Hammond said of foreign diplomats who deal with the State Department. “They should be encouraged, because there’s great opportunity.”The ambassadors said communication with the Pentagon and the National Security Council is better, and they uniformly expressed respect for national security adviser H.R. McMaster and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. But even at those agencies, they said, information on U.S. economic, trade and security policy is often hard to get.Another channel is Trump’s chief economic adviser, Gary Cohn, to whom diplomats are turning for information on economic policy, including the border adjustment tax.Cohn has been responsive and seems to have the president’s ear, one diplomat said. “For us, he’s been the guy.”If a foreign policy crisis were to flare, perhaps over North Korea or Iran, several ambassadors expressed worry that the lack of the usual contacts at many levels of government could keep them from being able to fully explain Trump’s actions to their leaders back home.[Trump talked tough about China but is now struggling to deliver on his trade promises]One ambassador said that when he approached the State Department and the White House recently, he was told to come back if he has an emergency to discuss.Several added that they have tried to be creative in their approaches to the Trump administration, increasingly going outside the normal channels. Some said they have tried to leverage friendships with people in business who have ties to Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner or daughter Ivanka Trump to get access to those key members of Trump’s inner circle.What entree exists is generally limited to ambassadors talking to top White House officials, without the traditional bureaucrat-to-bureaucrat relations at lower levels where work is usually conducted.“I have never had trouble getting access,” one ambassador said. “But when we have visitors below the top levels, like members of parliament, we can’t find interlocutors for them.”The envoys said Trump has made efforts to create ties with the foreign diplomatic corps, including many at the Mar-a-Lago for the Red Cross Ball on Feb. 4.But they said the transition period had been unlike any they had ever seen.“The question is: Will the close allies maintain that same natural cooperation that we have had for 70 years?” one ambassador said. “The leaders of those allies want to maintain a relationship of trust with the traditional leader of the Western world. But today we have the impression that the chair of the leader of the Western world is a little bit empty. We are reaching out to test those relationships, but we have no answer.”Said another: “It’s quite distressing that the Americans are so unpredictable. Unpredictability is the worst.”Anne Gearan contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/virginia-politics/did-a-republican-running-for-va-governor-really-dress-up-like-a-confederate-gent/2017/04/11/bbffcaca-1eca-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.f6f8422fdc87
Did a Republican running for Va. governor really dress up like a Confederate gent?Protesters shouted over Virginia Republican gubernatorial candidate Corey Stewart as he gave interviews about his opposition to removing a Robert E. Lee statue from a Charlottesville park in February. (Fenit Nirappil/The Washington Post)By Laura Vozzella   By Laura Vozzella        April 11     Follow @LVozzellaRICHMOND — For a minute there, it looked like Corey Stewart’s bid for Virginia governor had morphed him from Confederate flag-waver to fully costumed Confederate reenactor.He turned up at the Old South Ball in Danville during the weekend, sporting a bow tie and dark bolero jacket bedecked with lots of shiny buttons. In a video he posted online, the former chairman of President Trump’s Virginia campaign looked right at home with all of the women in hoop skirts and men in Civil War-era uniforms.Stewart has made preservation of Virginia’s Civil War memorials a cornerstone of his primary race against political strategist Ed Gillespie and state Sen. Frank Wagner (Virginia Beach). At the ball, he made yet another rousing pitch for doing just that.[Donald Trump ‘mini-me’ struggles to find an audience in Virginia]“Over my dead body when I’m governor of Virginia are we ever going to take down the statue of Robert E. Lee or Stonewall Jackson or any hero of the commonwealth of Virginia,” he roared in a dance hall plastered with the Stars and Bars. He put in a good word for the flag, too.(Facebook: Corey Stewart)“I’m proud to be next to the Confederate flag,” said Stewart, a Minnesota native and chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors. “That flag is not about racism, folks. It’s not about hatred. It’s not about slavery. It’s about our heritage. … It’s time that we stop running away from our heritage. It’s time that we embrace it.”So is it also time to dress up like Virginia is still the capital of the Confederacy? Apparently so for anyone attending the ball, an annual event that raises money for wounded veterans but has drawn criticism for glorifying the days of slavery.[Corey Stewart declares victory for free speech after two venues back out of immigration rally]Stewart did not actually have requisite attire on hand. He had to make do with something in his closet.“That’s my kilt jacket,” Stewart explained in an interview Tuesday. “It’s called the Prince Charlie. It’s the best I could do on short notice. They told me, ‘Wear a tuxedo.’ So that’s my tuxedo top.”In a nod to his Scottish ancestry, Stewart normally sports the jacket with a kilt at black-tie events. This time, he paired it with pants. And when he does wear the kilt, Stewart is not a stickler for tradition.“I don’t wear it properly. I guess tradition is, you’re not supposed to wear anything under it,” he said. “But I definitely do. Don’t worry about that.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/texas-voter-id-law-was-designed-to-discriminate-against-minorities-judge-rules/2017/04/10/73bab4ee-1e45-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.97211fcfbd74
Texas voter ID law was designed to discriminate against minorities, judge rulesAUSTIN —  Dealing Texas another rebuke over voting rights, a judge Monday again ruled that Republican lawmakers purposefully designed a strict voter ID law to disadvantage minorities and effectively dampen their growing electoral power.It amounted to the second finding of intentional discrimination in Texas election laws in two months. A different court in March ruled that Republicans racially gerrymandered several congressional districts when drawing voting maps in 2011, the same year the voter ID rules were passed.Neither ruling has any immediate impact. But the decisions are significant because they raise the possibility of Texas being stripped of the right to unilaterally change its election laws without federal approval. Forcing Texas to once again seek federal permission — known as “preclearance” — has been a goal of Democrats and rights groups since the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the rule in 2013.The latest ruling by U.S. District Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos of Corpus Christi comes more than two years after she likened Texas’s voter ID rules, known as SB 14, to a “poll tax” meant to suppress minority voters. On Monday, she reaffirmed that conclusion after an appeals court asked her to reexamine her findings.The Texas law requires voters to show one of seven forms of identification at the ballot box. The list includes concealed-handgun licenses but not college student IDs, and Texas was forced under court order last year to weaken the law for the November elections.Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton (R) did not immediately react to the ruling, although the state could once again appeal, something that one of Paxton’s top deputies, Brantley Starr, appeared to suggest would happen while testifying to lawmakers just as the ruling came down.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/in-kansas-a-close-congressional-race-surprises-republicans/2017/04/10/8f0085e8-1e05-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.774aedb3c9a6
Republicans undertake unexpected rescue mission in deep red KansasWICHITA —  As James Thompson worked his way through a coffee shop, the Democratic candidate for Congress said something that got people to look up from their laptops.“We’ve got a lead right now.”“Really?” said Marla Flentje, a Republican who said she’d voted for him in early balloting.A trio of Democrats walked over to meet Thompson and tell him they’d vote Tuesday.“I hope you do, because right now, we’re winning,” said Thompson.Republican Ron Estes, left, Kansas state treasurer, and Democrat James Thompson, a civil rights lawyer, are competing to replace Rep. Mike Pompeo in a special election in Kansas. Pompeo is now CIA director. (Wichita Eagle via AP)Thompson was not supposed to win — or even come close — in this largely rural 4th District, which picked Donald Trump for president by 27 points. Rep. Mike Pompeo (R) vacated the seat to lead the CIA, and Republicans expected to hold it easily.But in the final days before Tuesday’s special election, Republicans reacted to weak polling and turnout data by rushing resources to southern Kansas. A GOP super PAC rolled out robo-calls over the weekend from Vice President Pence, and on Monday from President Trump, in support of candidate Ron Estes.“Ron Estes needs your vote and needs it badly,” Trump said on the call. “Ron is going to be helping us, big league.”On Monday, Republicans also dispatched Sen. Ted Cruz (Tex.) for a fly-in, where he urged Kansans to vote “if you’re fed up with the stagnation under the Obama economy.”Late Monday, the national House Democratic campaign arm announced that it was calling 25,000 households to counter the GOP influx. Readers of the liberal Daily Kos donated a total of $149,000 to Thompson over the final weekend.This — the home town of Koch Industries — is the last place the GOP expected to have to undertake a rescue mission. The Kansas seat is one of the reddest of the five House seats vacated in the Trump era, four of them by Republicans who joined the new administration. If Thompson ends up winning here, the national Democratic Party will claim the victory as a portent of bad things to come for Republicans in the 2018 midterms with Trump in the White House.Democrats also have an opportunity in Georgia’s 6th District, where Jon Ossoff is surging in the race to replace former congressman Tom Price (R), who is now health and human services secretary.[GOP begins to fret about holding on to Tom Price’s district]In Kansas, Thompson, a civil rights lawyer who supported Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) in the 2016 presidential caucuses, flew under the radar for weeks. Meanwhile, Estes, the state treasurer, got bogged down as his party staged an unsuccessful rebellion against deeply unpopular Gov. Sam Brownback (R). Estes rarely mentions Trump, but he did reference “fair trade” at the Cruz rally, smoothing over an issue that divides Kansans.As the race has tightened, Republicans, who are still favored to win Tuesday, have strained to make the election a referendum on liberalism. Brownback, invisible on the trail, didn’t help matters by vetoing a bipartisan Medicaid expansion bill last month; his most favorable polling puts his job-approval rating below 25 percent, even in the 4th District.In November, as Republicans were scoring upsets around the country, they lost three state House seats in the Wichita area. Several more-conservative Republicans lost primaries to moderate candidates.“People here still like Trump,” said Thompson, whose campaign signs identify him not as a Democrat but as an Army veteran. “It’s not been a referendum on him. It’s a referendum on the failed Republican leadership in the state. People don’t want these policies taken to the national level.”In Wichita, where turnout in early voting has been high, Brownback’s name has the force of an epithet. As she settled in for lunch at the Anchor, a downtown gastropub where Thompson stopped to shake hands, Kayla Marshall said she didn’t vote in the 2016 election. She would, she said, vote for Thompson — and to explain why, she talked about teachers buying pencils with their own money because Brownback had cut the education budget.Lynn Jones, who opened his door to Thompson canvassers Monday morning, was quick to say he’d voted for George W. Bush. Brownback, he said, was nothing like Bush.“Okay, he was trying something new with his tax cuts, but the experiment didn’t work,” Jones said. “When the laboratory explodes, you probably ought to try a different formula.”Thompson, a first-time candidate, was generally ignored by both parties for most of the race. When his campaign asked the state Democratic Party to fund a mailer, it was turned down, later investing just $3,000. In an interview last week, Democratic National Committee Chairman Thomas Perez said the national party would not be transferring any late money.“We can make progress in Kansas,” Perez said. “There are thousands of elections every year, though. Can we invest in all of them? That would require a major increase in funds.”Thompson spoke before Sanders at a February rally and has been endorsed by Sanders’s group, Our Revolution. According to recent fundraising reports, Estes has raised $459,000 to Thompson’s $292,000. Outside groups, which are pouring money into Georgia ahead of the April 18 contest there, have left Kansas alone.“The Democrats think so much of their candidate there that they’ve spent zero dollars,” said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Republican-allied Congressional Leadership Fund. “We’ll win the Kansas election by double digits.”His group is now funding robo-calls targeting local Republicans, who outnumber Democrats but have been sluggish to turn out. The National Republican Congressional Committee has spent close to $100,000, multiplying Estes’s presence on the airwaves.Thompson’s campaign reacted with delight to the robo-calls, viewing them as not just ineffective but as sign of his viability.Because he’s getting so little attention — no trackers from the other party were following him Monday — Thompson talked freely with a voter concerned about abortion, agreeing that society should do more to lower abortion rates. He dismissed a last-minute TV ad accusing him of favoring abortions for sex selection as representing his views to a “ludicrous and false extreme.” His final TV spot featured him shooting an AR-15 as a narrator called him a “fighter who grew up in poverty,” but the National Rifle Association was not on the air to contradict him.What was on the air for Estes was rote — and telling of how Republicans have struggled to find a pro-Trump rallying cry. One of Estes’s first commercials featured him in waders, joking that “after eight years of Obama, America is weaker and the swamp is deeper than we thought,” as an alligator poked its head up for emphasis.Democrats haven’t won here since the early 1990s; then-Rep. Dan Glickman (D) was swept out by a Republican wave in 1994. Glickman vastly outspent his opponent, but the Republicans made up for it with a grass-roots surge of antiabortion activists. In 2014, when Bliss helped Sen. Pat Roberts (R) secure victory, he got a similar late-game boost from social conservatives.Those wins came when Democrats controlled the White House. On Monday, when more than 150 Republican voters piled into the Estes-Cruz rally, some wore anti-Hillary Clinton merchandise; all cheered when Cruz recalled how his “lips curled into a smile” when he saw a Democratic colleague mourn Clinton’s defeat.The cheering was quieter when Cruz and Estes described the stakes of the election. They spoke generally about repealing the Affordable Care Act, though Estes said he opposed the GOP replacement bill that fizzled last month. Cruz talked up tax reform by staging a contrast: “Unlike Obamacare, I’m convinced we can get it done.”Estes, meanwhile, packaged himself as an agent of common sense and disruption, without mentioning the work he’d done with Brownback. “I’m going to Washington to change Washington,” he said. “When I go to Washington, I want to get to a balanced budget.”The Republican majority that Estes would join does not have a balanced-budget plan.In interviews at the rally, Estes’s voters said they were thrilled that Neil M. Gorsuch had been confirmed to the Supreme Court, but they had little else to say about Congress. Asked what he thought of House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), John Bernhardt, who sported an early-voting sticker on a red-white-and-blue polo shirt, answered with a grimace.“Can I plead the fifth?” he said.Joyce Wallace, who got a plum position near the rally stage, said she had no qualms about sending a Trump ally to Washington.“I’m all for Trump,” she said. “I think he’s fulfilling his campaign promises.”Not every Republican at the event agreed. Cathy Dowell, who like Wallace had caucused for Cruz in 2016, worried that Trump went back on a campaign pledge by attacking a Syrian airfield.“I’m a little worried about Trump,” Dowell said. “I know he’s not a conservative, and I think he’s making a mistake in Syria.”But the two Republicans found something to agree on: Both would be happy if Carl Brewer, the Democrat who just finished two terms as mayor of Wichita, replaced Brownback in the governor’s office.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/whos-visiting-the-white-house-watchdog-groups-are-suing-to-find-out/2017/04/09/1f8435f4-1d18-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html?utm_term=.b8ae56f290da
Who’s visiting the White House? Watchdog groups are suing to find out.A coalition of government watchdog groups plans to sue the Trump administration on Monday with the aim of compelling the White House to continue President Barack Obama’s practice of releasing logs of lobbyists and others who visit the complex.Since President Trump took office in January, the website where such records had been publicly available has gone dark, and White House officials will say only that the policy is under review, making no assurances that they will operate with the same openness.Among the plaintiffs in the lawsuit is Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, the same group whose legal actions led to a settlement with the Obama administration in 2009, opening up the White House visitor logs for the first time.“It is crucial to understand who is potentially influencing the decision-making of the president, particularly when you have a White House that tends to lean toward secret decision-making,” said Noah Bookbinder, the organization’s executive director.After initial resistance from the Obama administration, nearly 6 million names of White House visitors were made public under the deal crafted in 2009, released in batches roughly 90 to 120 days after the visits occurred.Last week, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to say whether the Trump administration would continue that practice, which has not been universally applauded. Some past and present government officials have argued that White House officials should be permitted to conduct meetings outside the public eye.“I tend to feel it’s the prerogative of the White House to have people come visit, and the public doesn’t need to know who they are,” said Andrew H. Card Jr., chief of staff under President George W. Bush. “We don’t have a log on everybody who visits Congress, and they’re a coequal branch of government.”Public access to the logs can serve as a deterrent to some “prominent people” who might otherwise be inclined to counsel the president, Card said. “They’ll say, ‘I’d love to meet with the president, but I don’t want my name to appear in a log.’ ”News organizations routinely used the logs, which are generated by the Secret Service, to shed light on the Obama administration. In 2012, for example, The Washington Post reported on a single day in January of that year when a steady stream of lobbyists were among the thousands of visitors to the White House and surrounding executive buildings.The logs’ existence burst back into the news last month when House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) went to the White House grounds to review intelligence reports on which he later briefed the president. Both Nunes and White House officials initially declined to say whom Nunes had visited and who had cleared him onto the grounds, information that is typically contained in the logs, along with the length of the stay.The 2009 agreement permitted some exceptions to disclosure, including purely private visits to the Obama family, such as friends arriving for sleepovers with the president’s school-age daughters. The Obama White House also maintained the prerogative not to release records of particularly “sensitive” meetings, such as interviews with potential Supreme Court nominees.There were also reports of attempts to get around the disclosure requirements. In 2010, for example, the New York Times reported that a Caribou Coffee location just outside the White House grounds had become a popular destination for meetings with lobbyists that wouldn’t show up in the official logs.But by and large, advocates for making the logs public say they were pleased with the Obama administration’s practices.“We’re only asking for the same Secret Service data that Obama published routinely,” said Thomas S. Blanton, director of the National Security Archive, another plaintiff in the lawsuit against the government.Blanton’s organization is an independent nonprofit group that collects and publishes U.S. government documents. Also joining the lawsuit is the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, a new entity that seeks to preserve and expand freedom of the press.Among the legal questions at issue is whether White House visitor logs are controlled by the White House or the Secret Service. The distinction matters because White House records are not subject to freedom of information requests and can be shielded from public view. Executive agencies, including the Secret Service, on the other hand, are subject to the disclosure law.The most recent court decision on the subject came in 2013, in a case in which Judicial Watch, a conservative group, sought visitor logs from the Obama administration. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that the records are controlled by the White House.That’s one reason plaintiffs in the new action have chosen a different venue for their lawsuit, which is being filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit lists the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the Secret Service, as the defendant.A spokesman for the department declined to comment Sunday.The plaintiffs say their interest in Trump visitor records extends far beyond the White House complex, given that the president often holds meetings at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida and other properties he owns in the New York and Washington areas.It is unclear what kind of records the Secret Service generates regarding members and guests at Mar-a-Lago, which is a private club, when Trump is on the property. Blanton said the agency should have a similar logging system in place there.“Either they have one or they should have one,” Blanton said. “Maybe this lawsuit will speed up the process of getting such a system in place.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/conservatives-hope-that-trump-victory-on-gorsuch-will-breed-other-successes/2017/04/09/a63067e6-1c49-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.4f0f17a1da5a
Conservatives hope that Trump victory on Gorsuch will breed other successesLast month, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch smiles in reaction to a question as he testifies during the third day of his Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill. (Jim Bourg/Reuters)By John Wagner , Sean Sullivan  and Ed O'Keefe   By John Wagner , Sean Sullivan  and Ed O'Keefe        April 9     Follow @WPJohnWagner  Follow @WaPoSean  Follow @edatpostJudge Neil M. Gorsuch will return to the White House on Monday for a swearing-in ceremony as Supreme Court justice in the Rose Garden that President Trump and his allies hope will resonate well beyond his ugly confirmation battle.The event marks a big win for Trump and conservatives — both on and off Capitol Hill — who have struggled desperately to produce significant victories despite pledges of sweeping change in Washington that one-party rule would bring.Since he was inaugurated 80 days ago, Trump has failed to advance much of the ambitious legislative agenda he said would happen quickly if he was elected — rolling back the Affordable Care Act, rewriting the tax code and injecting big spending into the country’s infrastructure.But the confirmation of Gorsuch on Friday — despite the change to Senate rules that preceded it — broke this pattern, at least in a singular instance. Trump allies in the conservative movement, and in Congress, hope that it will serve as a springboard for other triumphs and something of a reboot of his presidency.“I think it’s a big shot in the arm,” Trump ally Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union, said of Gorsuch’s confirmation. “It gives Republicans a taste of victory and reminds them we can have many more.”(Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post)Trump also garnered measured praise on Capitol Hill last week for his decision to strike a Syrian airfield after that country’s government launched a chemical weapons attack that killed scores of civilians. Although Republican leaders welcomed the assault as long overdue, some conservatives — including Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.) — decried it. And many lawmakers say that the president must get approval from them if he wants to expand military action in Syria.[Congress greets Syria strike with mix of applause and anger]Many conservative activists and lawmakers noted that the key to Gorsuch’s confirmation was GOP unity from the beginning. Trump drew Gorsuch’s name from a list of 21 candidates that he released during the campaign, and announced his pick in a prime-time address from the White House’s East Room.Conservatives expressed enthusiasm for the pick — as he was seen in the mold of the late Justice Antonin Scalia — and celebrated that Gorsuch would maintain the high court’s ideological balance, pouring millions of dollars into advertising benefiting him.[Senate Democrats vastly outspent by right in Gorsuch fight]“Hopefully, we’ve learned some lessons from the health-care challenge,” said veteran GOP operative Ed Rollins, the senior strategist for the pro-Trump Great America PAC. “We weren’t in that one as much as we were in this one,” he added, referring to the Gorsuch fight.But the momentum generated by the Gorsuch win may be hard to capi­tal­ize on. The reality waiting for Trump when lawmakers return at the end of April from a two-week recess is not especially rosy. Even some Republicans on Capitol Hill question whether a nomination muscled through the Senate through an extraordinary rules change has much meaning for more difficult battles ahead.Deep divisions remain on health care as House Republican infighting felled a compromise on a marquee campaign promise for both Trump and GOP lawmakers, despite claims of progress before lawmakers left town last week.There are still major disagreements over how to proceed both within the White House and between House and Senate leaders on a tax code revamp, a key conservative priority — a task further complicated by warring interest groups.And on issues where Trump will need Democratic cooperation — such as a promised $1 trillion dollar investment in infrastructure — it’s not clear that Senate Republicans did him any favors by blowing up a long-standing Senate rule that helped the minority party block the confirmation of a Supreme Court nominee.That move is likely to further poison relations in a chamber where Democrats will maintain the power to block Trump legislative initiatives unless there are further rule changes, which Republican leaders say they’re not interested in pursuing at this point.“Actually, the process that we went through, which was purely partisan, is not the way, generally speaking, to get things done,” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said. But he added of Trump, “I think he deserves some credit for getting this done.”Jim Manley, a lobbyist and longtime aide to former Senate minority leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), said he doubts that the “moral victory” of the Gorsuch confirmation will affect other Trump priorities on Capitol Hill.“I’m sure they’re going to claim momentum out of this, but I think their legislative agenda is going to continue to be stalled,” Manley said. “The House is in chaos. That’s not going to change. There are still significant differences among Republicans on health care and tax reform, and as far as the president’s budget, it’s dead on arrival.”Trump allies, however, contend that the combination of Gorsuch’s confirmation and the leadership Trump showed on Syria presents an opportunity for him to appear more in command of a presidency that has so far been marked by chaos and unpredictability.Stephen Moore of the Heritage Foundation, who advised Trump on tax policy during the campaign, said that the Gorsuch win is well-timed for a president whose sagging popularity is threatening to undermine his effectiveness.“Politics creates its own momentum,” Moore said. “If you’re seen as unable to get things done, it emboldens your enemies.”Conversely, he said, “If [Trump] gets more victories, he gets more popular. If he gets more popular, he’ll get more legislative victories.”For the short-term, the decision to level airstrikes at Syria has engendered goodwill from McCain and other hawks in the Republican Party, which could help Trump on other fronts.White House aides and Trump boosters say there were several lessons to be learned from the Gorsuch fight, which, if successfully replicated, could help going forward.White House spokesman Steven Cheung said that the “successful nomination process — which includes unprecedented public transparency, coalition outreach, and working with congressional leaders — will help further upcoming legislative priorities.”From the outset, there was widespread buy-in on Gorsuch among GOP senators. At the time he was selected, some Republicans even said that picking Gorsuch helped heal some of the anger caused by Trump’s controversial travel ban, which caught much of Congress off-guard.Trump also won high marks for relying on popular former senator Kelly Ayotte (R) of New Hampshire to serve as Gorsuch’s lead “sherpa” on Capitol Hill, a role that involved making introductions to individual senators.Republicans say the White House benefited from the engagement of an array of GOP and other conservative advocacy groups pulling publicly for Gorsuch, a campaign that involved pouring millions of dollars into mailers and radio and television advertising touting the judge’s character and credentials.The effort stood in stark contrast to a comparatively anemic push to pass the House leadership’s health-care bill that Trump embraced.On other Trump priorities, however, conservative groups aren’t currently rowing in the same direction. Last week, for instance, Freedom Partners released a new study as part of a campaign to undermine a proposed “border adjustment tax,” which is a key component of the vision for a tax code rewrite advanced by House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.).And this week, another conservative group, Club for Growth, is planning to launch TV advertising to push the House health-care bill in a more conservative direction.The group’s president, David McIntosh, blasted what he called “the left wing among House Republicans” for failing to sign on to a compromise that would have pushed along the measure.Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) noted that Republicans were far more unified when it came to Gorsuch, summing up the lesson for other battles this way: “Be prepared, consult and teamwork.”As a candidate, Trump released a “Contract With the American Voter” promising that he would introduce and “fight for” 10 pieces of legislation in his first 100 days. To date, only the health-care bill has been introduced.Other promised priorities include legislation that would dramatically cut taxes, spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investments, significantly expand school choice and make it easier to afford child care.The White House’s desire for legislative wins was underscored last week by a briefing for reporters to tout how Trump has been working with lawmakers in an “unprecedented” way to make use of a little-known law known as the Congressional Review Act.The law allows Congress a limited window to repeal regulations put in place by the president’s administration. As of Wednesday, Trump and lawmakers worked together to repeal 11 such regulations issued in the waning days of President Barack Obama’s administration. By contrast, Trump aides said, the law was used only once before by other presidents.One repealed regulation, involving privacy rules imposed on Internet providers, garnered attention. But most have not, including one that affected hunting on federal land in Alaska.“I confess that any one of these is not really going to drive a news story,” Trump’s legislative director Marc Short told reporters. But, he said, “this is an important story that has not been told.”Asked whether the White House was concerned about scoring insufficient victories so far, Short said, “I think when you look back and you say in the first 100 days we will confirm a Supreme Court justice, I consider that a pretty significant achievement.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/with-a-deadline-looming-nobody-is-threatening-to-shut-down-the-government/2017/04/09/d68789ee-1a17-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.c973cf1119a1
With a deadline looming, nobody is threatening to shut down the governmentSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, leaving the floor ahead of the vote to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, expresses optimism that a stopgap funding measure will have bipartisan support. (Aaron P. Bernstein/Reuters)By Kelsey Snell   By Kelsey Snell        April 9     Follow @kelsey_snellCongress is off for two weeks, and when lawmakers return, they will quickly face a critical deadline to keep the government open. But in an unusual development on Capitol Hill, where budget brinkmanship has become a reliable expression of political dysfunction, nobody is threatening to shut the government down.Instead, Republicans and Democrats appear to be working together to keep the lights on in Washington. Aides in both parties said negotiations are underway on a stopgap funding measure that both sides could support, one that sidesteps such political land mines as President Trump’s request for new funding to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.Even Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) sounded a note of optimism as his chamber adjourned for its Easter break. He told reporters that bipartisan support would be needed not only for the stopgap measure, which would fund the government through September, but also for the fiscal 2018 spending bills needed to fund government operations in the months beyond.(Video: Jenny Starrs/Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)None of those bills “can be done one party only,” McConnell (R-Ky.) said. “All of that will have to be done on a bipartisan basis. And I think — the Democratic leader can speak for himself — but I’m confident he looks at it the same way.”The bipartisan bonhomie marks a refreshing break from the dark days of spending fights that descended on the Capitol after the 2010 elections swept a wave of hard-line conservative tea party candidates into office.Since then, the GOP’s right flank has taken an aggressive stance on cutting federal spending, threatening repeatedly to shut down the government or even default on the nation’s debts in hopes of securing an agreement to slash spending. That has forced Republican House leaders to turn to Democrats for the votes to push must-pass measures over the finish line to raise the federal debt limit and finance the government.The difference this time is that Republican leaders are turning to Democrats from the get-go, a decision that will produce less drama in the halls of Congress but is likely to make it much harder to craft a budget that matches Trump’s ambitions on an array of fronts, from the border wall to a big increase in defense spending.In an interview Friday, McConnell told The Washington Post that he is unsure how to square that circle. But he was insistent that Democrats need to play a part in the negotiations.“It seems to me that neither side benefits from sort of a government-shutdown scenario again in September,” McConnell said. “Exactly how we get from here to there, I couldn’t tell you today.”The spending measure expires April 28 — just four days after lawmakers return from their Easter break.House Republicans are bitterly divided and aimless after the collapse of a plan by House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) to rewrite the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare. Still angry over that grueling battle, the right wing of Ryan’s caucus is not expected to support a measure to keep the government open past the April deadline, though that is far from settled.So Ryan has turned for help to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). Last week, Pelosi said lawmakers from both parties were working well together to craft a stopgap spending measure. But she predicted that the measure’s fate would ultimately be in Trump’s hands.Trump, for example, could refuse to sign a funding measure that doesn’t include money to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Such funding is a non-starter with Democrats, as are any other policy changes that could be construed as a win for the president.“Members of Congress know what they can pass. Maybe the White House doesn’t,” Pelosi said. “And that’s — that line of communication is where you might see some — more difference of opinion than even between Democrats and Republicans in the Congress.”[Democrats have a new and surprising weapon on Capitol Hill: Power]If they clear the April 28 hurdle, Republican lawmakers and aides are already worrying privately that a larger spending battle looms over Trump’s budget request for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1.Most Democrats and many Republicans have roundly criticized Trump’s plan to increase the defense budget by $54 billion — money that would be carved directly out of the budgets of domestic agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency, the State Department and the Agriculture Department.Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) said Trump’s request has put Republicans in a difficult situation. Trump has promised voters that Republicans will expand the military, regain control of government spending and overhaul the federal government without cutting safety-net programs for older and poorer Americans — a promise many lawmakers see as mathematically impossible.Conservatives like Sanford say Washington will never get its fiscal house in order without reining in spending on such popular programs as Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid, which together make up about half of federal spending.“What you have is a mousetrap,” Sanford said. “Back home, you’ve got the mayor of North Charleston riding around in a Meals on Wheels truck saying, ‘I don’t think we should cut this’ — and he was an early Trump supporter.”The White House has been closely monitoring preliminary talks about fiscal 2018 spending bills, according to Republican aides who were granted anonymity to discuss private negotiations.Last week, Ryan said he is optimistic about budget deals because there is a Republican in the White House.“The good news is we don’t have to deal with the Obama administration,” Ryan told reporters at his weekly news conference. “We don’t have to fight an administration that we disagree with on so many issues. We are now working with an administration we agree with.”But it’s far from clear that Ryan’s rank-and-file will line up behind him. Conservatives are still angry that Ryan persuaded them to try to roll back the Affordable Care Act by using a special budget procedure known as “reconciliation” that would have made it easier to push a bill through the Senate.The repeal effort unraveled when Ryan could not build a coalition of moderates and conservatives large enough to approve a rewrite of the health-care law. Many conservatives are wary of making the same mistake in the 2018 spending measure.House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) — one of the holdouts on health care — was among several conservatives who warned recently that they wouldn’t support a spending bill just to avert a shutdown. Meadows said conservatives are particularly concerned about where any budget bill sets overall spending levels for government agencies.“Now you’re going to be setting top-line numbers, which you appropriate to,” Meadows said. “That will have a unique dynamic, let’s put it that way.”Hard-liners are also expected to balk at efforts to use reconciliation procedures to advance a comprehensive rewrite of the tax code, another top priority for Ryan and Trump. These lawmakers say they will not necessarily support a tax overhaul if it is accompanied by higher spending.“I think it’s more important that we take a look at the budget and make sure that it meets the principles we’re trying to move forward,” said Freedom Caucus member H. Morgan Griffith (R-Va.).Griffith said any spending increases must be paired with cuts elsewhere or with policies to rein in spending on Social Security and Medicare, which is rising rapidly as the baby-boom generation retires.A large number of conservatives voted against each of the last three spending measures over those same concerns. The most consequential fight came in 2015, when Republican leaders were forced to turn to Democrats to avert a government shutdown. The result was a two-year compromise that increased spending across the board and ensured equal funding for domestic and military programs.That agreement is set to expire at the end of September, and GOP leaders have begun to fret quietly over what will happen.Meanwhile, Democrats are eagerly laying plans to swoop in with a budget compromise if Ryan cannot solve the problems that have riven the lower chamber for the past six years.Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who serves on the Senate Budget Committee, said last week that Democrats would offer a spending blueprint to counter Trump’s budget request.“It has to be defeated and we will come up with alternatives.” Sanders said. Democrats will not support “tax breaks for millionaires . . . and cuts to programs that people desperately need.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/what-does-the-junior-supreme-court-justice-do-kagan-tells-gorsuch-it-starts-in-the-kitchen/2017/04/09/9297ef4c-1bbd-11e7-9887-1a5314b56a08_story.html?utm_term=.add85b14d9f2
What does the junior Supreme Court justice do? Kagan tells Gorsuch it starts in the kitchenNo one could have known it at the time, but at the end of last summer, Justice Elena Kagan gave Neil M. Gorsuch a face-to-face tutorial on what it means to be the Supreme Court’s newest justice.It starts in the kitchen.“I’ve been on the cafeteria committee for six years. (Justice) Steve Breyer was on the cafeteria committee for 13 years,” Kagan said at a Colorado event where she was being interviewed by Gorsuch and Timothy M. Tymkovich, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit.[Trump picks Colorado appeals court judge for Supreme Court]Gorsuch and Tymkovich both were on President Trump’s list of potential Supreme Court nominees at the time, and it just so happened that they asked what it was like to be the most junior justice.Kagan is a storyteller, and knows this is a topic that audiences usually eat up, so she played it for all it was worth.The junior justice has three unique responsibilities, she said. But in recounting them, she always starts with the fact that the newest justice is assigned to cafeteria duty and keeps it until the next justice is confirmed.[Gorsuch’s impact might be felt immediately]“I think this is a way to kind of humble people,” she said during the “fireside chat” at the elegant Broadmoor resort in Colorado Springs. “You think you’re kind of hot stuff. You’re an important person. You’ve just been confirmed to the United States Supreme Court.“And now you are going to monthly cafeteria committee meetings where literally the agenda is what happened to the good recipe for the chocolate chip cookies.”The justices eat lunch together on the days when they hear oral arguments, Kagan explained.“Somebody will say, ‘Who’s our representative to the cafeteria committee again?’ Like they don’t know, right? And then they’ll say, ‘This soup is very salty.’ And I’m like supposed to go fix it myself?”You might guess it was not the first time Kagan has told the story. But, as she says, she’s worried about the cookies and the soup since 2010--her biggest contribution has been to install a frozen yogurt machine--so who would begrudge her?The Supreme Court is a place that runs on seniority. When Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg gets questions from feminists about why the opera written about her relationship with the late Justice Antonin Scalia is called Scalia/Ginsburg--and not the other way around--she tells them to remain calm.Scalia got to the Supreme Court before she did, she says. He gets top billing.The junior justice’s other responsibilities involve the private conference, when the justices meet alone--no clerks, no assistants--to decide which cases they will take and vote on the cases in which they’ve heard oral arguments.It’s another event at which seniority rules. The chief justice speaks first, and then each justice speaks in order of longevity on the court. The junior justice speaks last and takes notes of the proceeding.Kagan likes that duty. “I pay attention, I don’t lose focus and I communicate all our decisions,” she said. But that’s not all.“The third thing--this is the most important junior justice responsibility--I open the door,” she said.The conference room is a “real inner sanctum. We have two doors,” she said. Why would someone knock? “Well, you know, one of the justices forgot his glasses. The other justice forgot her cup of coffee.”Kagan said there are no exceptions to the rule of who answers the door.“Literally, if I’m like in the middle of a sentence--let’s say it’s my turn to speak or something--and there’s a knock on the door, everybody will just stare at me, waiting for me to open the door,” Kagan said. “It’s like a form of hazing. So, that’s what I do, I open the door. Pronto.”Kagan said all this good-naturedly; she is always one to appreciate the great gig she’s landed rather than expound on the weight of the job.Kagan is known as one of the court’s best writers, with a style that is clever, conversational, even a little sassy at times. She and Gorsuch, also known for his legal prose, formed a bit of a mutual admiration society.“Justice, you’re such a very fine writer,” Gorsuch enthused.“Thank you!” Kagan responded. “And coming from you, I mean that’s a great compliment.”“What would you attribute your success as a writer to?” Gorsuch asked.Kagan answered that it began with her schoolteacher mother, who “basically approached the fifth grade curriculum as if it were a PhD dissertation. She brought that attitude home with her . . . I really do feel like she taught me to write.”Gorsuch asked if she went back and reread her opinions.“Yeah, sometimes,” she said. “Sometimes I read them and say, ‘Yeah, it’s all right.’”Then she turned the tables: “Are you always critical of yourself?”“Oh, I can’t read anything I’ve written,” Gorsuch replied.“But everybody loves it!” Kagan said.“I’m interviewing you!” Gorsuch protested.After Monday, the Supreme Court’s two youngest justices--Kagan turns 57 this month, Gorsuch is just 49--will take their places at opposite ends of the court’s mahogany bench--and its ideological spectrum. Fittingly, spectators will see Kagan on the left, and Gorsuch on the right.But it will be that way only until the next justice comes along. The justices’ seats at the bench, like everything else, are dictated by seniority.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republicans-begin-to-fret-about-holding-on-to-tom-prices-georgia-seat/2017/04/09/34211c82-1b26-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.5a9909def551
Republicans begin to fret about holding on to Tom Price’s Georgia seatJon Ossoff speaks with meet-and-greet attendees at the home of Charley and Janice Wiley in a northern suburb of Atlanta on Friday. Ossoff, a Democrat, is leading polls for Georgia's 6th Congressional District’s special election to replace Tom Price, now the secretary of the Health and Human Services Department. (Kevin D. Liles/For The Washington Post)By David Weigel  and Travis Highfield   By David Weigel  and Travis Highfield        April 9     Follow daveweigelATLANTA —  Republicans are becoming increasingly concerned about their ability to hang on to former Republican congressman Tom Price’s seat here in a wealthy, suburban district where restive Democratic energy has been surging since November’s election.Democratic hopes rest on Jon Ossoff, a 30-year-old former congressional staffer and preternaturally on-message candidate. He has raised a whopping $8.3 million for the special election to replace Price in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District — more than anyone has ever collected to win this seat, which has not been represented by a Democrat for nearly four decades.Ossoff is a first-time candidate who is leading the field of five Democrats and 11 Republicans in the April 18 special election. If he does not receive more than 50 percent of the vote in that race, the top two vote-getters will move on to a runoff on June 20.The progressive and anti-Trump groups founded through the nonprofit Indivisible project after November’s election are plunging in to help him, and the liberal blog Daily Kos is channeling donors Ossoff’s way. Most of Ossoff’s money, $7.7 million, came though the progressive donation hub ActBlue. Republicans have tried to toxify him by raising the specter of meddling out-of-state liberals — only 6 percent of the money is from Georgia — but Ossoff points to his volunteers.“The atmosphere in Georgia is electric right now,” Ossoff said in a short interview at his parents’ home. “Thousands of folks, many of whom have never been engaged in politics before, working together to make the statement that we think the country can only become stronger and more prosperous and more secure if we stick to our core values.”(Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)Republicans, however, are fighting back, unwilling to easily cede a district that Trump won by 1.5 percentage points in 2016 — albeit down from the 23.3-point margin enjoyed by 2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney.Outside groups and the national Republican Party are spending millions on television ads that paint the Democrats as the hope of window-smashing anarchists who want Ossoff in Congress. Georgia Republican Party mailers darkly warn about Ossoff’s work for the Qatar-funded Al Jazeera TV network. (The mailers print the network’s Arabic name on a black background, resembling the flag of ISIS.) The National Rifle Association warns, in drawling radio ads, that Democrats want to “steal this election and your freedom.”Asked about the attacks Friday, Ossoff paused, then rattled off adjectives.“Predictable, cynical, partisan, negative politics, with a whiff of desperation,” he said.Ossoff’s lead might also be artificially inflated. The number of Republicans running here means that the GOP vote is split, and no contender is likely to win the more than 50 percent of the vote needed to avoid a runoff. It’s possible that Republicans will unite around whoever emerges from their field.It is also possible that the progressive energy kicked up because of Trump’s presidency could see its first real victory here in Georgia in the campaign to “flip the 6th.” The race will test Democrats’ strength in the kind of districts they need to win if they hope to retake the House in 2018 — mainly suburban areas that have become more demographically diverse.[Should House Democrats write off rural congressional districts?]Five special elections are underway in congressional districts where Trump pulled Republicans out of Congress to join his administration. All came from safely red districts or states; in three of them, small donors and political groups are churning up competitive races. On Friday, Republicans announced new spending in Kansas’s much more Republican 4th District, which votes Tuesday — Sen. Ted Cruz announced that he would fly from Texas to campaign there.But the Georgia race has attracted more money and volunteers. No open House district swung harder away from Republicans in 2016. The district is diverse, rich and highly educated, a microcosm of the “rising American electorate” that Democrats hoped to ride to victory last year.Ossoff paints himself as a pragmatist, willing to work with both sides of the aisle. But he has also taken on Trump, running a campaign ad that shows him tweeting that he will “stand up to Donald Trump because anyone can send a tweet.”Sitting silently on a desk in a suit with a blue tie, the only sound is of the Democrat typing on his smartphone. His words run across the screen as though they were being posted to Twitter. “He should act like a president,” the ad ends.Republicans and their allied groups are fighting the money and the messenger.The National Republican Congressional Committee is running ads invoking House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). The Congressional Leadership Fund super PAC, closely allied with House GOP leaders, debuted a widely panned ad that used old footage of Ossoff in a Han Solo costume to portray him as immature.Since then, the super PAC has attacked Ossoff for contracting with Al Jazeera on a documentary film — about the Islamic State — and tied him to the anarchists who disrupted Trump’s inauguration. In a memo to donors, the CLF credits its ads with giving Ossoff a net negative favorable rating — with 60 percent of voters viewing him as liberal — and with keeping him far from the 50 percent threshold needed to avoid a runoff.“The only thing he’s ever accomplished in his life is having the fortune to be born to rich parents who will spend millions of dollars on him,” said Corry Bliss, the CLF’s executive director, who plans to spend at least $2.2 million in Georgia. “You could go down to Georgia, give anyone $8 million, and they’d get 40 percent of the vote.”In the first 10 days of early voting, 17,871 ballots have been cast and self-identified Democrats have outnumbered Republicans by a 19-point margin. On Friday, however, the Democratic margin was just five points. By Sunday, the CLF was up with its third commercial branding Ossoff a “rubber stamp” for Pelosi, ending with the plea “vote Republican.”“People aren’t very happy about it, but we’re also like: Hey, they’re feeling threatened,” said Amy Nosek, 42, of the district’s Indivisible Georgia chapter. “They’re fighting back, because we’re fighting.”The reasons for that confidence were on display at this week’s candidate debate, held at the Atlanta Press Club. Ossoff had ready (and sometimes wooden) answers to questions about his resume. He responded with flawless Hill-speak to ads accusing him of inflating his experience working for Rep. Hank Johnson (D-Ga.): “For two annual fiscal authorizations for the Department of Defense, I contributed language to the National Defense Authorization Act.”Meanwhile, Ossoff’s rivals had their arms full defending the Republican record in the Trump era. Karen Handel, a near-miss candidate in two statewide races — currently polling highest to make the runoff’s second spot — repeatedly rejected the House GOP’s health-care proposal and the negotiations to strip “essential health benefits” from the current system.“That’s not Tom Price’s plan,” said Handel. “Not every single time do we have a mandate that is horrible.” Moments later, longtime tea party activist and candidate Amy Kremer said that she, too, opposed the bill; Ossoff deflected one of her attacks by praising her “bipartisanship” for criticizing both parties.“The people in that district are educated, and they’re tired of the mudslinging they saw in the presidential campaign, so it doesn’t work like it used to,” Johnson said. “They’re looking at issues. They were promised a bill of goods that was not delivered.”Republicans hope that in a runoff, with Ossoff facing just one Republican, he won’t be able to zoom around the partisan differences. But every Ossoff event, or interview, offers more evidence of how he is already effectively smoothing away those rifts. On Friday night, speaking to a house party of about 50, the Democrat fielded questions on health care, infrastructure and partisanship itself.“The only test to policy that I’ll supply is, is it in the interest of this community?” Ossoff said. “If it is, I’ll support it. If it’s not, I won’t. I’ll work with anyone who wants to help us here and help the country, and I’ll stand up to anyone who doesn’t, regardless of party.”On Friday, Ossoff’s style helped him evade the sort of issue that can swerve a campaign off-course — Trump’s missile strikes on Syria. Ossoff’s ads portray the president as reckless and in need of congressional checks.“Congress has an important role to play in ensuring the conduct of U.S. foreign policy is the interest of the American people, but so too does the commander in chief have significant discretion to act where appropriate,” Ossoff said.Georgia Democrats have long memories about moderate-looking candidates getting whipsawed by international events. In 2002, then-Sen. Max Cleland, a Democrat who lost his legs and one arm in Vietnam, was defeated after an ad shamed him for votes against the Department of Homeland Security — and illustrated it with images of Osama bin Laden. The new ads, from both the CLF and the Georgia Republican Party, also try to blur a strength — Ossoff’s documentary company that reported on the Islamic State — into a question-raising weakness.“It’s disgusting, and it’s eerily reminiscent of what they did against me in 2002,” Cleland said. “But people are sick and tired of that kind of stuff.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/social-issues/like-obama-before-him-trump-is-freeing-foreign-born-criminals/2017/04/06/d9776a3c-149c-11e7-ada0-1489b735b3a3_story.html?utm_term=.7c26dfef2932
Like Obama before him, Trump struggles to deport some foreign-born criminalsA foreign national being arrested in Los Angeles on Feb. 7, 2017, during an immigration sweep. (Charles Reed/U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement via AP)By Maria Sacchetti   By Maria Sacchetti        April 8     Follow @mariasacchettiYintang Cao, a Chinese national who served time for hawking counterfeit designer purses, was freed from immigration detention March 31 after the United States failed to win permission from China to deport him. Emil Al Seryani, a Jordanian citizen convicted of burglary and drug dealing, was released March 7, again after deportation efforts failed.Their quiet return to their lives in the United States contradicts one of President Trump’s signature campaign promises: to deport criminals who are not U.S. citizens, even to countries that do not want them back.As a candidate, Trump excoriated the Obama administration and former secretary of state Hillary Clinton for releasing thousands of criminals who he said might have been deported had the United States imposed sanctions on their uncooperative homelands.“Day One, my first hour in office, those people are gone,” Trump said last year in Arizona.But as president, Trump is confronting the same diplomatic and legal challenges as his predecessors, including whether to jeopardize national security and economic interests so that a nation such as China will accept all Chinese citizens that U.S. authorities want to deport.(Monica Akhtar/The Washington Post)A former immigration official said it is ironic that Trump and his GOP supporters are stymied by the same issues they insisted could be solved quickly.“It’s very difficult when you have recalcitrant countries that typically will not take those individuals back,” said John Sandweg, a lawyer who during the Obama administration served as acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which oversees deportations. “I’m not at all surprised to see that the Trump administration is having to release people.”The White House said Trump is doing what he can, including signing an executive order in January that instructed the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to deny visas to nations that do not cooperate with deportations.“The ball is in their court,” said Michael Short, a White House spokesman.But the State Department said it has not acted on that part of the executive order.Denying visas to another country “is a powerful tool that we have, that is usually not something that we would jump to very quickly,” said Will Cocks, a spokesman for the State Department’s Bureau of Consular Affairs. “There are other tools that we have that we can use to try to get countries to issue travel documents and accept their nationals back.”Washington has only imposed visa sanctions twice, preferring to negotiate with countries to persuade them to accept deportees. In 2001, the Bush administration restricted visas for Guyana, which then agreed to take back Guyanese being deported. Last year, Obama denied visas to Gambian government officials and their families, a sanction that remains in effect.The Obama administration successfully removed tens of thousands of noncitizens with criminal records during Obama’s eight years in office, but it also released more than 86,000 criminals in the United States from fiscal 2013 to 2015. After their release, some committed violent crimes, reports of which infuriated Obama’s critics in Congress.Some detainees were freed because of a 2001 Supreme Court ruling that bars ICE from jailing immigrants indefinitely. If their home countries will not take them back, the court said, U.S. officials have to release them. Other criminals were released on bond or for discretionary reasons.ICE would not say how many criminals have been freed since Trump took office, and because immigration records are secret, it is difficult to know how his administration has handled those cases.But it is possible to track some cases through federal lawsuits that immigrants have filed asking judges to order ICE to release them because their homelands won’t take them back.Both Cao and Seryani filed such lawsuits, and ICE freed them before court rulings were handed down. Others who have sued for their release, according to court records, include Osarhieme Obayagbona, a Nigerian convicted of wire fraud and tampering with government documents, and Krunal Patel, from India, who has burglary, marijuana and drunken-driving convictions.“There’s a lot of things Trump thinks he can do because he’s Trump,” said Jay Stansell, a retired assistant federal public defender in Seattle who has filed federal lawsuits on behalf of immigrants. “But it turns out that, no, we have a judiciary, and you can’t legislate immigration law from the White House.”Deporting someone can take years, and this applies especially to those who no longer have up-to-date citizenship papers from their home countries. Under international law, countries are supposed to accept their citizens, but they have to issue travel documents, such as passports, before the United States can put deportees on airplanes.Some countries cannot find the records. Other countries, such as the Soviet Union, no longer exist. And some drag their feet on cases involving individuals with criminal records or otherwise troubling pasts.ICE spokeswoman Sarah Rodriguez would not release the administration’s latest list of countries that refuse to accept deportees; in 2016, there were 23.Trump supporters say they did not expect the shift in deportations to be as swift as the president promised on the campaign trail.“From our perspective it’s early on in the process,” said Chris Crane, president of the pro-Trump ICE union. “It’s pretty unrealistic to think that the administration can get all of these things taken care of in the first month or first 100 days. They’ve got a million priorities, and this is just one.”Seryani, 39, was freed after Jordan twice refused to accept him. “Given that the agency had no significant likelihood of removing Mr. Al Seryani in the near future, he was released,” Rodriguez said, adding that ICE will keep trying to deport him.Seryani’s criminal defense attorney, Glen T. Jonas, described his client as a “computer dork” who has lived in the United States for so long he speaks English without a foreign accent.In his federal lawsuit, Jonas said, Seryani said he was wrongly convicted of drug possession with intent to sell and is seeking a new trial. Jonas also said ICE failed to transport Seryani to hearings in connection with his request for a new trial while he was in the agency’s custody.Some countries have responded to Trump’s pressure to take back their citizens. In March, Trump said that Iraq agreed to accept people with final deportation orders. Later that month, officials in India said the Trump administration was pressing their government to resolve more than 270 outstanding deportation cases, a sign that the administration was using behind-the-scenes diplomacy, for now, to try to achieve its goals.Mariam Masumi, an immigration lawyer in Arlington, said the administration’s threat to deny visas may be having some effect.One of her clients, a Jamaican citizen who also had filed a federal lawsuit to get out of immigration detention, was deported in February after Jamaica produced his passport number, which the U.S. government had been seeking for years.“Somehow, magically, after some time, they ended up issuing a travel document,” Masumi said. “At that point, I couldn’t do much to fight it.”But other observers say that unless the Trump administration intensifies pressure on countries to take back their citizens, ICE agents will have no choice but to release more criminals in the United States.“Threats may work. But they’re not going to work on everybody, because some countries are going to refuse to do it,” said Ames Holbrook, a former immigration agent who wrote a book about the release of foreign criminals in the United States.“And then if we don’t answer those countries that still refuse, then the countries that bought the threat are going to realize that it’s not a threat.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/republicans-on-capitol-hill-leave-town-with-most-of-their-agenda-stuck-in-limbo/2017/04/08/e6f97b16-1b25-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.dd7e4a3227c8
Republicans on Capitol Hill leave town with most of their agenda stuck in limboSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell(R-Ky.) leaves the chamber after the vote to confirm Judge Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court on April 7 in Washington. (Bill O’Leary/The Washington Post)By Paul Kane   By Paul Kane        April 8     Follow @pkcapitolCongress limped into its spring break with little to demonstrate that much has changed from its previous dysfunctional gridlock — despite Republicans’ control of both Capitol Hill and the White House.There were vows at the start of the year of a rapid-fire offense, but Republican leaders ended the first three months of 2017 with only one major accomplishment: the confirmation of Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. Even that came with a high price — changing the Senate rules in such a way as to permanently decrease the influence of the minority.Every big GOP initiative has hit a dead end or remains stuck at the starting line: Plans to rapidly repeal the 2010 Affordable Care Act have stalled amid House Republican infighting. Senate Republicans have largely rejected the centerpiece of an emerging overhaul of the tax code that is backed by House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.). And an infrastructure package, often touted by President Trump, has been relegated to the back of the line. Some Republicans are wondering whether they should move that up to try for a much-needed bipartisan win.But grand ambitions for big changes with Trump in the White House and a GOP majority on Capitol Hill have quickly slammed into political reality: Republicans just can’t seem to get along, especially in the House. And Trump is a political neophyte who is unfamiliar with the legislative wrangling and compromises needed to score a big win in Washington.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) was being realistic when he said this week that the bulk of the legislative agenda for the rest of this year would require Democratic support, given the tight margins in the Senate and GOP infighting in the House. Now out of session until late April, McConnell says he hopes cooler heads will soon prevail.“I’m hoping that, after this two-week break, people are going to be in a more friendly mood,” he said in an interview Friday, noting that Democrats used fewer delay tactics on Gorsuch than some Cabinet selections early this year. “Most of the things that we’ll be doing the rest of the year, they’ll have to play a major role.”Some Democrats are willing to cross the aisle, particularly several up for reelection that hail from states where Trump won by wide margins.“We’d like to find a pathway forward,” Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) said after Friday’s Gorsuch confirmation vote. Yet Manchin found McConnell’s move to end 60-vote filibusters on Supreme Court nominees to be “un-American” and said he’s still waiting for real outreach on more legislation to bring together a bipartisan coalition.“Well, we had the opportunity this time,” he said of the Supreme Court fight, “and it didn’t work too well.”[Immediate impact: Gorsuch could begin playing pivotal role on Supreme Court starting next week]That effort didn’t get any easier late Thursday when Trump ordered a Tomahawk missile strike on Syrian airfield in response to a chemical weapon attack against Syrian rebels — a move that won bipartisan support but also renewed calls from both parties for Congress to debate and approve a new war resolution.Earlier this decade, Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) and John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) made a basic calculation: A Congress that struggled to pay its debts and to keep the government lights on was never going to craft a bipartisan deal governing the prosecution of America’s wars.So the Democratic Senate majority leader and the Republican House speaker, both of whom are now retired, stymied attempts at drawing up a new measure to guide the military in carrying out its expanding operations fighting terrorists.McConnell adopted that same attitude after the strike in Syria, suggesting Trump had the constitutional latitude to act and that Republicans and Democrats were too far apart to agree on a new authorization for the use of military force.“I can’t envision us agreeing on what an AUMF ought to be,” he said.[Congress greets Syria strike with mix of applause and anger]And lawmakers face more immediate problems. Within 72 hours of lawmakers’ return later this month is the April 28 deadline for funding the federal agencies to avert a government shutdown. McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) had a long meeting this week about that funding plan and not once did they discuss the bitter taste of the Gorsuch confirmation fight.Left to their own devices, the two leaders appear ready to craft a deal. That’s because McConnell knows that, the more things change in the era of Trump, the more some things stay very much the same on Capitol Hill.In the House, that means that there’s a bloc of several dozen conservatives who hate spending deals and will almost certainly vote against whatever Ryan puts before them, while in the Senate they will need at least eight Democrats to clear the 60-vote threshold to overcome a filibuster.[Republicans try to revive health-care effort as leaders seek to temper expectations]While Trump advisers and some House Republicans spent the past week haggling over an effort to revive the health-care overhaul, McConnell never once mentioned that legislation as a focus for the remainder of this year.He noted that the only achievements in the first quarter of 2017 — Gorsuch, confirming Trump’s Cabinet and overturning more than a dozen agency regulations — happened because they faced 51-vote thresholds in the Senate. The only simple-majority arrow left in their quiver is the tax overhaul if Republicans can agree on a new, massive budget resolution.But that decision is up in the air amid House-Senate battles over a proposed tax on goods coming across the U.S. border.“Now we pivot into a period where, with the exception of whatever we’re going to do on tax reform, Democrats will be full partners,” McConnell said.The window for finding Democratic collaborators is not permanently open. If Republicans keep pushing legislation with parliamentary rules allowing votes from just their side of the aisle, it requires them to resolve long-standing GOP feuds.If Republicans keep running into dead ends, with no success, the impetus for Democrats to want to work with an unpopular Congress and unpopular president will fade.Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) gave a one-word answer to what Trump should do next: “Infrastructure.”“I’m disappointed they didn’t go with that first,” she added.Back in January, at the Republican issues retreat in Philadelphia, Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) said an infrastructure package is something that might happen later, behind the health and tax packages. On Friday, Thune moved it higher on the priority list, given how the health legislation exposed lingering feuds within the GOP.The key lesson on health care, he said, applies to the upcoming legislative battles as well. Republicans can no longer expect to barnstorm Washington with a speedy legislative assault.“Better to do it right,” Thune said, “than to do it fast.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/04/08/trump-has-visited-a-trump-branded-property-every-2-8-days-of-his-presidency/?utm_term=.fcf35a844772
Trump has visited a Trump-branded property every 2.8 days of his presidencyPresident Trump is hosting Chinese President Xi Jinping this weekend at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla. (Carlos Barria/Reuters)This article has been updated.For the 10th weekend in a row, President Trump is visiting a Trump-branded property — every weekend except the first two after his inauguration.For the sixth weekend in a row, he’s golfing at one of those properties; he’s golfed on nine of those 10 weekends.In total, Trump has spent time at one or more Trump-branded properties on 28 of the days he’s been president — meaning that he visits a property that’s part of his private business empire more than one-third of the days he’s been in office, or once every 2.8 days. The frequency at which he golfs is lower: He’s golfed on 17.9 percent of the days he’s been president, or about once every 5.6 days.By comparison, Barack Obama golfed once every 8.8 days over the eight years that he was president. And he was excoriated by his political opponents for doing so — including, as is now well-known, by Trump.Can you believe that,with all of the problems and difficulties facing the U.S., President Obama spent the day playing golf.Worse than Carter— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 14, 2014Most of the visits Trump has made to Trump-branded properties were to Mar-a-Lago, where Trump this week hosted the president of China, Xi Jinping. He’ll stay at the resort through Sunday, and he may (as he did Saturday) head to Trump International Golf Course in Palm Beach, Fla. Trump’s team is cagey about when he actually plays golf, probably precisely because of the conflict between his words on the campaign trail and his behavior in office.Update: He headed to the golf course on Sunday, too.Mar-a-Lago is a members-only facility, with those who pay the steep initiation fee suddenly gaining occasional proximity to the president and, at times, his Cabinet and senior staff. This week, ProPublica reported that the wall that Trump insisted would be built between himself and his business interests is fairly porous, with Trump able to receive money from the Trump Organization as he wishes. The free advertising his properties have received from his visit — his golf club in Virginia, his hotel in downtown Washington — probably help boost those businesses’ bottom lines, and, ultimately, his own.President Trump was met by protesters and supporters as his motorcade made its way to a golf course at Trump International Golf Club in Palm Beach, Fla. (Reuters)These trips aren’t free, of course. Each weekend trip to Mar-a-Lago costs taxpayers an estimated $2 million. The extended trip this week for the Xi visit certainly cost more, particularly given the added security concerns.If Trump does play golf Sunday, he will have played once every 5.3 days of his presidency. If he keeps up that pace, he will have golfed 261 times by the end of his first term. (Obama golfed 333 times over his two terms.) Update: With his Sunday outing, Trump is on pace to pass Obama’s in only five years, compared to Obama’s eight.If he continues to visit Trump properties at his current pace, he will have done so on 524 days of the 1,461 days between his inauguration and Jan. 20, 2021. That’s a lot of free advertising.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/horrible-pictures-of-suffering-moved-trump-to-action-on-syria/2017/04/07/9aa9fcc8-1bce-11e7-8003-f55b4c1cfae2_story.html?utm_term=.0cebd9f17ce7
‘Horrible’ pictures of suffering moved Trump to action on SyriaWhen President Trump began receiving his intelligence briefings in January, his team made a request: The president, they said, was a visual and auditory learner. Would the briefers please cut down on the number of words in the daily briefing book and instead use more graphics and pictures?Similarly, after Trump entered office, his staff took President Barack Obama’s Syria contingency plans and broke the intelligence down into more-digestible bites, complete with photos, according to current and former U.S. officials with knowledge of the request.This week, it was the images — gruesome photos of a chemical weapons attack on Syrian civilians — that moved Trump, pushing the president, who ran on an “America first” platform of nonintervention, to authorize the launch of 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at Syrian targets Thursday night.Senior administration officials and members of Congress who spoke with Trump said the president was especially struck by two images: young, listless children being splashed with water in a frantic attempt to cleanse them of the nerve agent; and an anguished father holding his twin babies, swathed in soft white fabric, poisoned to death.As the carnage unfolded on cable news, which the president watches throughout the day and deep into the night, Trump turned to his senior staff, talking about how “horrible” and “awful” the footage out of Syria was, said one top adviser.(Associated Press)“What the world saw last night was the United States commander in chief, and also a father and grandfather,” Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, said Friday. “The world recoiled in horror at babies writhing and struggling to live. And who could avert their gaze — and that includes our very tough, very resolute, very decisive president.”Horrific images were not the only reason military action made sense for Trump. Whatever his concern for the people of Syria — a country whose refugees would not be able to enter the United States for 120 days under Trump’s latest travel ban proposal — he has been eager to show a clear victory more than two months into his tumultuous young presidency.A strike against Syria could help him demonstrate independence from Russia and its president, Vladi­mir Putin, whose alleged efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential race have proved a major distraction. And Trump wants to show that he is a tougher and stronger leader than Obama, who received scathing criticism when he drew a “red line” with Syria over its use of chemical weapons and then declined to act when President Bashar al-Assad bounded over it.Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) on Friday questioned Trump’s “24-hour pivot on Syria policy,” noting that until Assad’s regime launched its chemical attack, Trump had not made Syria a priority. White House press secretary Sean Spicer had told reporters last week that the United States had to accept the “political reality” of Assad’s grip on power.“There is no strategy on Syria,” Murphy said. “He clearly made this decision based off an emotional reaction to the images on TV, and it should worry everyone about the quixotic nature of this administration’s foreign policy and their potential disdain for the warmaking authority of the United States Congress.”Throughout the week, Trump’s public remarks placed a special emphasis on the youngest victims. “When you kill innocent children, innocent babies, babies, little babies, with a chemical gas that is so lethal — people were shocked to hear what gas it was,” Trump said Wednesday afternoon in the Rose Garden, where he appeared at a news conference with King Abdullah II of Jordan. “That crosses many, many lines, beyond a red line — many, many lines.”On Thursday, when a subdued Trump addressed the nation, he spoke of “beautiful babies” cruelly murdered, declaring, “No child of God should ever suffer such horror.”(The Washington Post)About 54 hours after receiving news of the attacks in his daily briefing Tuesday morning, Trump — by then at his private Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida for a summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping — gave the order to target Shayrat air base.At 7:40 p.m. Thursday, as Trump and Xi were midway through a meal of pan-seared Dover sole with champagne sauce and dry-aged prime New York strip steak (a Trump favorite), a naval destroyer launched the first of nearly five dozen Tomahawk cruise missiles, lighting up the sky in eastern Syria.White House aides and Trump deputies said that while the photos clearly affected Trump, he made his final decision after consulting with his advisers in a process they described as deliberative and thorough.Over an intensive 2½ days, the president’s national security team convened several high-level meetings with representatives from the Pentagon, the State Department, intelligence agencies and the National Security Council.“I don’t think it was an emotional reaction at all,” said Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who was involved in the discussions. “President Trump evaluated the facts, that the attacks occurred on his watch, and [as he] reflected upon prior responses or lack of responses, he came to the conclusion that we cannot yet again turn away, turn a blind eye from what’s happened.”But the process was especially — and perhaps intentionally — quick, in contrast to the style of Obama, who prided himself on making decisions based on information, not emotions, a manner his critics derided as “dithering,” as former vice president Richard B. Cheney put it early in Obama’s first term.Trump learned of the chemical attack Tuesday morning, asked for options on how to respond Wednesday and received them Thursday, the day he authorized the strike.He asked the Defense Department to prepare potential responses after the Pentagon assessed that the Syrian military was responsible for Tuesday’s chemical strike and for chemical attacks March 25 and March 30 against civilians near Hama air base, U.S. military officials said.U.S. Central Command has had plans for striking the Syrian government for years and has significant assets in the region, enabling a quick response once a decision was made. The National Security Council deliberated Wednesday night, and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and other senior officials discussed the possibilities, senior military officials said. Ultimately, aides presented Trump with three options, but the president narrowed them to two and asked aides to flesh out more details.Senior military and White House officials said Trump selected the “proportional” choice among the options available.Richard Fontaine, president of the Center for a New American Security, where Mattis was recently a member of the board, said the options probably included doing nothing and launching more comprehensive airstrikes involving bombers and jets.“I suspect that they said if you are going to do something, they need to do it quickly,” Fontaine said. “You need to not hand-wring about this for weeks.”Thursday, Trump held another meeting aboard Air Force One as he flew to Palm Beach, Fla. Some officials — including national security adviser H.R. McMaster, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and senior adviser Stephen K. Bannon — joined him in the plane’s wood-paneled conference room, with others piped in via secure videoconference from Washington as the presidential jet streaked southward.Once on the ground in Florida, aides said, Trump gave Mattis the order to move forward. The defense secretary passed it along to Marine Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Army Gen. Joseph L. Votel, chief of U.S. Central Command.The missiles were launched about three hours later, at 3:40 a.m. local time, to minimize civilian casualties.In the process, the president — who had championed an “America first” worldview rooted in the belief that U.S. foreign policy had become too interventionist — appeared to swing sharply in the other direction.Thursday’s strike also raised several uncomfortable, still-unanswered questions: Was Trump motivated to attack Syria in part because Obama never did? Was he driven by a need for a political victory, at home and abroad? And what is the administration’s long-term strategy and goal in Syria?It was unclear as well whether Trump fully considered the ramifications of his decision. Russia, whose president has supported Assad and whose troops operate inside Syria, reacted initially with pique, canceling a key air agreement designed to avoid military confrontations with U.S. forces in the skies, before later agreeing to restore the deal.And even as the White House touted support for the decision in Congress and foreign capitals, administration officials acknowledged that the attack, which they described as commensurate with Assad’s violation of “international norms,” would not eliminate his ability to do it again.Though Trump had often seemed to blame Obama for the situation in Syria, his remarks Thursday night from Mar-a-Lago were nonpartisan and intentionally so, a senior adviser said.The president, this adviser added, was sending a message not only to Syria and Russia but also to China, whose president was in Palm Beach for their summit, and to North Korea that Trump and the United States will not “shirk or shrink” from conflict.On Friday, Spicer, the press secretary, initially told reporters at Mar-a-Lago that he would offer an update on Syria in front of the news cameras. But just before he was to begin his briefing, he reversed himself: He wanted images of the president, both from the night before on Syria and the China summit Friday, to carry the day.Mike DeBonis, Adam Entous, Greg Jaffe and Abby Phillip contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-officials-defend-syria-airstrikes-say-they-were-in-vital-national-interest/2017/04/07/b65ef65c-1ba7-11e7-855e-4824bbb5d748_story.html?utm_term=.b19934e28e63
Trump officials defend Syria strikes, say they were in ‘vital national interest’The Trump administration on Friday defended its strikes against Syrian military targets overnight, while Russia and Syria slammed the attacks and warned they would provoke more terrorism and instability in the region.From the United Nations to Capitol Hill to the Pentagon, U.S. officials said the attacks were justified in targeting the Shayrat air base that was used to launch a chemical weapons attack that killed scores of men, women and children in Syria’s Idlib province Tuesday.“It is in our vital national interest to prevent the use and spread of chemical weapons,” Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, told the U.N. Security Council during a special meeting on the strikes. She added that she had warned the council on Wednesday that the United States might act alone.[7 key questions about the Syrian conflict]“Assad did this because he thought he could get away with it,” Haley said of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. “He thought he could get away with it because he knew Russia would have his back. That changed last night.”But Russia condemned the strikes against its ally in Damascus and said it was suspending an agreement to minimize the risk of in-flight incidents between U.S. and Russian aircraft operating over Syria.President Vladi­mir Putin’s spokesman said the risk of confrontation between warplanes of the U.S.-led coalition and Russia in the skies over Syria has “significantly increased” after President Trump ordered the launch of 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at Shayrat in retaliation for a chemical attack that killed more than 70 civilians.U.S. military officials said they warned the Russians in advance that they were not the target of the missile attacks launched early Friday from the USS Ross and USS Porter, and that Russian forces did not attempt to use their advanced air-defense systems in Syria to stop the U.S. missiles.The two countries have traded information about flights by a U.S.-led coalition targeting the Islamic State and Russian planes operating in Syria in support of the Assad government, to avoid accidents and misunderstandings, an effort known as “deconfliction.” The Russian Defense Ministry said Friday it was suspending the pact effective at midnight, because it sees the U.S. strike “as a grave violation of the memorandum.”[Russia condemns U.S. missile strike on Syria]U.S. military officials said they continued to communicate with the Russians before the deadline, including after the attack.“There’s someone who is on the other end who is talking to us,” a senior U.S. military official said Friday.(Sarah Parnass,Julio Negron/The Washington Post)But the Kremlin’s decision to suspend the 2015 memorandum of understanding on the air operations immediately ratcheted up tensions further, even as Russian officials hoped the strike against Assad’s forces would not further sour U.S.-Russian relations already in a deep chill.Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is scheduled to visit Moscow next week in what was to be an attempt to reset relations with Moscow and lay out U.S. positions on a variety of issues, including Ukraine and suspected attempts by Russia to meddle in the U.S. presidential election. Now, however, the prospects for the meeting have been overshadowed by the fallout from the strikes, which Russia’s U.N. envoy called an “illegitimate action by the United States.”“The consequences of this for regional and international stability could be extremely serious,” Deputy Ambassador Vladimir Safronkov said during the U.N. Security Council debate.“The U.S. has often talked about the need to combat international terrorism,” Safronkov added, yet it attacked the Syrian air force, which he claimed is leading that fight in Syria.“It’s not difficult to imagine how much the spirits of terrorists have been raised by this action from the United States,” he said.And Syria’s representative, Deputy Ambassador Mounzer Mounzer, called the United States and its allies, Britain and France, “the three colonialists” who, he said, pursue hypocritical ends in the Middle East.The Russian government and some critics in the United States have questioned whether it is clear that the Syrians launched chemical weapons, rather than the suspected nerve agent being dispersed by other means such as a conventional bomb hitting a chemical storage facility on the ground. But U.S. military officials said they have high confidence that they know what happened.“We know the routes that the aircraft took, and we know these aircraft were overhead at the time of the attack,” one senior U.S. military official said of the chemical weapons strike Tuesday.The Pentagon released images Friday that it said showed the blast site where the Syrian bomb carrying a chemical weapon, likely sarin, detonated on Tuesday. Military officials said the staining on the road around the blast site crater is indicative of a chemical weapons attack. It was launched about 6:50 a.m., and a Russian-made aircraft piloted either by Syrians or Russians carried out an airstrike later in the day on a nearby hospital where many of the victims were taken for treatment, military officials said.Senior U.S. military officials said they are investigating whether the Russian military participated in any recent chemical weapons strikes against civilians in Syria. But the officials said they do not yet have any information suggesting that the Russians did so.The Syrian regime has increasingly faced pressure from opposition forces and was in danger of losing control of Hama air base in northwestern Syria, the officials said. The installation is believed to be used as both a base for Syrian helicopters and as a manufacturing facility for barrel bombs.On March 25, a chlorine attack was launched in Hama, and a second chemical weapons attack of an undisclosed kind of gas was launched March 30, one senior U.S. military official said. That escalated to the attack Tuesday, in which the Syrians launched their largest chemical weapons attack since 2013, he said.[Which chemical weapon was used in Syria? ]“This escalatory pattern of using industrial chemicals, to using suspected chemical munitions, to verified chemical munitions, caused us obviously great concern about the direction this was going,” the official said.In Congress, lawmakers called for a response to the chemical weapons attack that could include punitive measures against Russia, Assad’s chief sponsor in his war effort.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) suggested Friday that he would look favorably on a proposal to step up sanctions against Russia, Iran and others who support the Assad regime’s war effort in Syria — a measure that passed in the House last year but was never taken up in the Senate.Putin has been supplying Assad’s army with warplanes and other reinforcements that the United States believes have been used in attacks on Syrian civilians.But McConnell deferred to the Trump administration as to whether those sanctions would be necessary — unless bipartisan support for such a move in the Senate is considerable.“If they [the administration] feel they need additional sanctions, or we can come up with something that seems to enjoy bipartisan support, I’d be open to it,” McConnell said. “The Russians are not out friend.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-confronts-the-contradictions-of-his-foreign-policy-rhetoric/2017/04/07/c1a32dfe-1bc4-11e7-855e-4824bbb5d748_story.html?utm_term=.864f69d61686
Trump confronts the contradictions of his foreign policy rhetoricPresident Trump found himself in unfamiliar territory Friday, generally praised by members of the political and foreign policy establishments but attacked from some quarters of Trump nation for seeming to betray the “America First” pledges that carried him to the White House.Trump’s decision to fire cruise missiles at a Syrian air base in response to Tuesday’s chemical weapons attack against civilians won support from some people he had routinely disparaged over the past year, among them Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.). Hours before the U.S. attacks, Hillary Clinton had urged just such a response.But some Trump loyalists saw the president as taking a potentially fateful turn away from what had made him so attractive to his anti-establishment, anti-globalist supporters. Radio talk show host Laura Ingraham tweeted, “Missiles flying. [Florida Sen. Marco] Rubio’s happy. McCain’s ecstatic. Hillary’s on board. A complete policy change in 48 hours.” Farther out on the nationalist fringe, Paul Joseph Watson, an editor at Infowars.com, tweeted, “It’s been fun, lads, but the fun is over.” Watson clarified that he was not turning on Trump completely but was off the train with regard to Syria.There was always a contradiction in Trump’s campaign rhetoric on foreign policy. He was the get-tough leader who would “bomb the hell out of ISIS” and portrayed himself as a dramatic contrast to what he called the weak and ineffective leadership of Barack Obama. But he was also the reluctant interventionist and criticized rivals who advocated deeper military involvement in Syria.In his speech to a joint session of Congress, Trump promised to be president of this country, not the rest of the world. On Thursday night, Trump ended his address announcing the missile strike with the traditional “God bless America,” and then, after a brief pause, “and the entire world.”(Louisa Loveluck, Jason Aldag/The Washington Post)What the U.S. strike reveals about the president’s foreign policy remains unclear. Was this a one-off action, meant only to tell Syrian President Bashar ­al-Assad not to use chemical weapons again? Or could the strike lead to deeper U.S. involvement in Syria, depending on reactions by the Syrian regime, Russia, Iran or Islamic State forces?Trump’s sharp turn in a matter of days was so dramatic and unexpected that it produced whiplash among many foreign policy experts. That he could pivot so quickly is a reminder that Trump is a president without a deeply rooted national security philosophy or worldview, someone who was decisively swayed by the terrible images of dead and dying children that were broadcast around the world after the chemical attack.[Trump officials say strikes were in national interest]Obama had drawn a famous “red line” in Syria in 2012, warning Assad against the use of chemical weapons. His failure to take military action after Syria launched a chemical attack in the summer of 2013 marked one of his greatest foreign policy failures and became a symbol of presidential equivocation and weakness.Notably, Trump was not among those criticizing Obama at the time. Instead, he warned Obama not to take military action, even when chemical weapons had been used. This week, the chemical attack gave Trump an early opportunity to draw a distinction from his predecessor, even if it contradicted the view he stated in 2013.Among Trump loyalists who had been sharply critical of Obama on this and other issues, the new president’s decision to attack was welcomed as a sign of how significantly things have changed. Conservative talk show host Bill Mitchell tweeted that Trump’s action “obliterated Obama’s eight years of [weakness] in one bold stroke.”(Jayne Orenstein/The Washington Post)But the nervousness within Trump’s coalition was also evident, even among those who did not offer outright criticism. Nigel Farage, the former leader of Britain’s UK Independence Party and a Trump ally, expressed qualms about what the missile strikes might foretell. “Many Trump voters will be worried about this intervention,” he tweeted. “Where will it end?”Tom Donilon, who was national security adviser in the Obama administration, described the retaliatory strike as “limited and appropriate” and said Trump and his advisers should make it clear that this was about the use of chemical weapons only and not a broader indication of U.S. policy. But he also said Trump’s team must now decide on concrete goals for their Syrian policy. “That’s up to the president to make that clear to his military leaders,” he said.Jake Sullivan, an Obama administration official who was Clinton’s policy adviser during the campaign, said he was struck that Trump, in his statement Thursday night, went beyond the issue of chemical weapons and called on other nations to join the United States to help end “the slaughter and bloodshed in Syria.” That, too, marked a big departure from the campaign.“Those are big questions that require thoughtful and considered responses, and I’m hopeful that the team around him will deliver those,” Sullivan said, agreeing that the United States should help lead that effort. “So far, we just haven’t seen or heard from Trump anything to suggest how the United States could get involved.”[Questions left in the wake of Trump’s decision to hit Syria]The president is shaped and influenced by what he sees on television. After viewing the horrendous images of suffering and death from the chemical attack, Trump said he had changed his view of Assad — even though similar images existed from the Syrian regime’s chemical attack in 2013. It seemed as if the reality of being president had settled in on him in unexpected ways. How might he react if confronted by other horrible cases of non-chemical civilian casualties inflicted by Assad?Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, said short-term reactions to the president’s action are likely to focus on his decisiveness rather than the implications for his Syria policy. “But those reactions will be good for about a week, and then after that it really depends on how events unfold in Syria,” Garin said. “Voters generally and Trump voters specifically are not eager for a sustained military engagement in Syria. And if the bombing turns out to have produced no apparent result, or draws the U.S. into a more complicated situation, the possibility for blowback against Trump is significant.”Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster, said Trump might be able to bring along his loyalists, even if he takes additional military steps in the Middle East. “If he frames it as a clear effort to promote and protect American interests in a compelling way, then I think a lot of his supporters will follow along,” Ayres said. “But he needs to have a compelling rationale and explain it clearly.”Amid the statements of support Friday, some members of Congress asked Trump to seek new congressional authority for use of military force in the Middle East, though when Obama sought that in 2013, he met strong resistance on Capitol Hill.There was no sign that Trump is prepared to do that, but U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley said the United States was “prepared to do more” in Syria, leaving open the question of a future role for Congress. That would put the president in a more difficult place politically, not only with the nationalists in his base, who overwhelmingly oppose such a step, but with the broader public.“If there is a debate about authorization of military force, that starts to change the complexion because it does begin to look like a big, long-term commitment to military forces operating in the Middle East,” said Democratic pollster Mark Mellman. “That is not what people want.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/us-and-china-end-summit-with-100-day-plan-to-boost-trade-and-cooperation/2017/04/07/5d3d923c-1bc9-11e7-855e-4824bbb5d748_story.html?utm_term=.58376d6a61e5
U.S. and China end summit with 100-day plan to boost trade and cooperationPALM BEACH, Fla. —  The United States and China wrapped up a two-day presidential summit here by announcing a 100-day plan to improve strained trade ties and boost cooperation between the rival nations.But they appeared to reach no clear path forward on North Korea, and the Trump administration’s unexpected military strike in Syria — launched on the summit’s first day — highlighted an area where President Trump and counterpart Xi Jinping differ sharply.Trump aides who participated in the talks described a productive first meeting between the leaders, saying they exhibited “positive” chemistry. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the two sides agreed to speed up trade talks to help close a lopsided imbalance in China’s favor, a common campaign-trail complaint of Trump’s.“This may be ambitious, but it’s a big sea change in the pace of discussions,” Ross said. “It’s important symbolism of the growing rapport between the two countries.”Trump advisers said the goal, at least from the U.S. side, was to increase American exports to China. But they offered no details about how they planned to achieve that.(The Washington Post)Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said there was “acknowledgment” from the Chinese side “that we do need to get to a more balanced trade environment.”But the surprise U.S. military response to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s apparent chemical weapons attack on civilians threw a wild card into the summit. U.S. warships fired 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at a military airfield in Syria during Trump’s Thursday night dinner with Xi at Mar-a-Lago.Trump told Xi about the attack “and explained the rationale behind it,” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said.Tillerson insisted that Xi was not rattled by Trump’s decision: “President Xi expressed an appreciation for the president letting him know and providing the rationale and said, as it was told to me, he understood that such a response is necessary when people are killing children.”China has long objected to the idea of unilateral U.S. military action in Syria. Beijing has said it prefers a multilateral approach, although over the course of six brutal years of war it has repeatedly used its veto power to vote with Russia against U.N. Security Council resolutions on Syria, including a December 2016 plan for a seven-day cease-fire in Aleppo and, more recently, a call for sanctions over the use of chemical weapons.At a daily news briefing Friday, Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, reiterated China’s support for a “political settlement” and said it was urgent to prevent any further deterioration of the situation in Syria.“China has issued its own statements. . . . I have read them on the wire service,” Tillerson told reporters Friday afternoon.(The Washington Post)Xi does not like surprises, and the fact that he was photographed shaking Trump’s hand and smiling at his declaration of “friendship” while the United States made a surprise military move was not going to be popular in China.Top Chinese leaders exist in a world where public appearances are tightly choreographed, the news media are controlled and protocol is paramount.On Thursday night, conservative U.S. news media painted the Syria hit as a bold but calculated warning to China. “He’s sending a message to the Chinese,” retired Army Gen. Jack Keane told Sean Hannity on Fox News. “He’s telling the Chinese that, ‘Listen, the North Koreans are trying to weaponize intercontinental ballistic missiles, and the rhetoric is they will use them against my country and my people. Don’t push me into a corner where I have to use a military option to deal with them. That would be horrific. That would mean war on the Korean Peninsula.’ ”The Global Times, a Communist Party-controlled newspaper known for its nationalist tone, viewed the missile strike as a projection of strength. In an editorial, the paper said Trump launched the strike “to establish his authority as the U.S. president.”“He wants to prove that he dares to do whatever Obama didn’t dare to do,” the newspaper said. “He also wants to prove to the world that he’s not a president-businessman and he will use U.S. military force without any hesitation when he thinks it is necessary.”On North Korea, Tillerson said the Chinese agreed that the mounting threat of Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons program had “reached a very serious stage,” but he said there was no discussion of any “package deal” in which Beijing would increase pressure on Pyongyang in exchange for the United States’ curbing military drills with South Korea.The two sides had “a real commitment to work together to see if this can be resolved in a peaceful way,” Tillerson said. But he warned that Pyongyang must halt its provocative nuclear and ballistic-missile testing before diplomatic talks can begin.“In order for that to happen, North Korea has to change its posture,” Tillerson said.Rauhala reported from Beijing. Luna Lin and Jin Xin in Beijing contributed to this report.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/wisconsin-democratic-senator-echoes-trumps-economic-message-in-her-reelection-bid/2017/04/07/d3e51298-1b06-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.1f2db558853b
Wisconsin Democratic senator echoes Trump’s economic message in her reelection bidSen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) listens during a hearing of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee on July 29, 2015, in Washington. (Astrid Riecken/Getty Images)By Peter Slevin   By Peter Slevin     April 7EAU CLAIRE, Wis. —  Sen. Tammy Baldwin, a progressive Democrat seeking reelection next year in a Rust Belt state won by President Trump, knows what she is up against. Republicans hold their strongest statehouse majority in decades here, and hundreds of small communities flipped to Trump after voting for Barack Obama in 2012.Then there’s Gov. Scott Walker (R), who fires volleys of accusatory tweets at Baldwin and appears likely to seek a third term, putting polar opposites on the same ballot in November 2018.Baldwin’s answer is to echo the hard-luck economic message that propelled the candidacies of Trump and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), assert a Democratic vision that takes account of the little guy — and outwork all prospective challengers.“The common thread is economic populism and how we get ahead,” Baldwin said here after a public discussion of prescription drug pricing. “It’s just that Walker and Trump pit one group of Americans against another, rather than taking on the real villains.”Baldwin is one of 10 Democrats defending Senate seats next year in states won by Trump. Their races are critical to the party’s hopes of overcoming a 52-48 GOP Senate majority in a year when only nine Republican-held seats are in play. They are betting on Trump’s unpopularity and the midterm bounce that typically goes to the party out of power in the White House.Sens. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), left, Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), center, and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), right, await the arrival of President Trump at a reception for senators and their spouses in the East Room of the White House on March 28. (Ron Sachs/Picture-alliance/Deutsche Presse-Agentur/Associated Press)Races in Wisconsin and across the country will test Democratic messaging and the party’s ability to harness anti-Trump energy evident in the Jan. 21 women’s marches, as well as protests at Republican town hall meetings and opposition to GOP efforts to eliminate the Affordable Care Act and social programs that help blue-collar Americans.Baldwin, for one, is also learning from mistakes that helped make Hillary Clinton the first Democratic presidential nominee to lose Wisconsin in 32 years. She aims to rebuild the 2012 coalition that first got her elected to the Senate, including farmers and working-class voters who turned to Trump. No prominent Republican has yet entered the Senate race to challenge her.“The intensity flipped on Nov. 9. The light switch went on our side,” said Rep. Ron Kind, a moderate Democrat whose western Wisconsin district includes Eau Claire. “The best thing that happened to Tammy’s reelect was Trump winning the White House. All the focus is on them now, and their agenda and how bad it is and what a rough start they’re off to.”Election Day is still 19 months away in an administration where “a week is a lifetime,” said Wisconsin Conservative Digest editor and Trump supporter Bob Dohnal.“If the economy is doing well, that will help Republicans across the board,” said GOP political consultant Bill McCoshen, ex-chief of staff to former governor Tommy Thompson, who lost to Baldwin in 2012.Yet Republicans must live up to their promises and show they can govern, McCoshen added. “If they can’t get things done, they’re probably going to be sent home.”Baldwin, 55, covered more than 1,300 miles on Wisconsin roadways in the past three weekends, holding events in 13 towns. A veteran of almost 20 years in Washington and six years in the state legislature, she emphasizes themes familiar to many working-class voters who supported Trump and gave Sanders a 13-point victory over Clinton in the April 2016 primary.She talks of a policy of “buy American” when it comes to purchasing such goods as steel and paper. She calls for improvements in trade deals and advocates measures to make prescription drugs less expensive. Voters, she said in an interview, “need me standing up to [corporations], not allowing them to rig the rules.”“We’re fighting for a whole series of policies that would make a true difference and a direct difference in people’s lives,” she said. “And you can’t just assume people know that.”At a recent White House reception, Baldwin told Trump she wants to work with him on a buy American policy. His answer? “I know he said the word ‘great’ several times,” she laughed. “It was encouraging.”After losing the 2016 primary, Clinton did not return to Wisconsin. In November, she received 238,449 fewer votes than Obama did four years earlier. Trump received about 3,000 fewer votes than Mitt Romney did in 2012, but defeated Clinton by 22,748 votes.Compounding the Democrats’ dismay, Sen. Ron Johnson, a conservative GOP incumbent seen as vulnerable, beat former senator Russ Feingold (D) by 100,000 votes, and Republicans achieved historic dominance in the state legislature. Walker, meanwhile, has won three consecutive statewide elections.The reeling state party held an 11-stop listening tour and added seven staffers. Five are regional organizers, one is a statewide organizing coordinator and one is a staff member assigned to connect with communities of color. They will listen to voters, support fledgling grass-roots groups, argue an affirmative case for Democrats and help recruit down-ballot candidates.Beyond wooing voters who voted Republican, Democrats are seeking to channel the anti-Trump energy of Eau Claire residents like Bill Hogseth, who knocked on hundreds of doors for Obama in 2008, but felt “very uninspired” by Clinton and sat on the sidelines in 2016.After Trump won, Hogseth concluded that he needed to act. He looked ahead 15 years and imagined how he would answer questions from his children, now 5 and 3.“I didn’t want to tell my kids, ‘Well, I was busy,’ ” said Hogseth, a wildlife biologist for the state of Wisconsin. “I wanted to say I carved out time in my life to be part of the resistance.”Hogseth read “from front to back” a political manual written by a group of former congressional aides called the Indivisible, and he started a Facebook group. “In a few weeks, it went from me to 1,500 people,” he said.The group started monitoring Wisconsin’s federal lawmakers, including Baldwin. They hand-wrote and delivered 80 letters to Johnson demanding the release of Trump’s tax returns, and they’re planning a three-hour training session on political organizing.“Not just to move the needle on the Trump administration, but this is an opportunity to pull more people into political engagement because they’re terrified. Show them what citizenship means,” said Hogseth, who calls the effort “coordinated citizenship.”Hogseth joined a meeting with Baldwin arranged by Becca Cooke, a former Democratic fundraiser who recently opened an Eau Claire shop called Red’s Mercantile. Cooke created the 715 Group, named for the local area code, to push progressive policies, in part by pooling donations from young voters.The 35 members of Cooke’s group, who range in age from “21 to 40-ish,” pledge to contribute $75, $125 or $250 per quarter for two years. The beneficiary of the first $6,000 was Baldwin.“It’s important that we keep her there,” Cooke explained. “In a big city this might be small beans, but it’s an approachable way for people to pledge. And committing for the two-year cycle keeps people engaged.”At the annual Eau Claire Democratic Party dinner, Kind said Democrats must find a candidate to beat Walker and make sure that Baldwin wins, because “they will be gunning for her.”When it was Baldwin’s turn, she spoke about the “dignity of work” and offered details of her economic agenda. She said she takes heart from Progressive Party leader Robert M. La Follette’s defiance of the robber barons a century ago. La Follette was a Wisconsinite, and when Baldwin reached the Senate, she requested his old desk.Mindful that political energy waxes and wanes, Baldwin asked the 180 people in the audience not to treat their activist vows like a New Year’s resolution, where you pledge to run five days a week and by April 1 can’t even find your running shoes.“You have to see it through. This is not something you can participate in only occasionally,” Baldwin said. “Stick with it.”They gave her a standing ovation.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/at-mar-a-lago-trump-to-welcome-chinas-xi-for-high-stakes-inaugural-summit/2017/04/06/0235cdd0-1ac2-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html?utm_term=.bc8443b5067b
At Mar-a-Lago, Trump welcomes China’s Xi in first summitPALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Trump welcomed Chinese President Xi Jinping here Thursday at his Mar-a-Lago estate, kicking off a two-day summit that U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said would include “very frank discussions” over North Korea and trade.Speaking to reporters after greeting Xi at the airport, Tillerson said the U.S. side would press the Chinese delegation to “find ways to exercise influence on North Korea’s actions to dismantle their nuclear weapons and their missile technology program.”“China can be part of a new strategy to end North Korea’s reckless behavior and ensure security, stability and economic prosperity in Northeast Asia,” Tillerson added.Trump, accompanied by first lady Melania Trump, greeted Xi with a handshake as the Chinese leader and his wife, Peng Liyuan, arrived at the resort for a series of bilateral talks, and a fancy opening night dinner with Trump and his top aides.Trump arrived aboard Air Force One shortly after Xi. While flying, Trump told reporters on the plane that he believes “China will be stepping up” to deal more firmly with Pyongyang.(The Washington Post)On trade, Trump reiterated his long-standing grievance over a large U.S. trade deficit to China.“We have been treated unfairly and have made terrible trade deals with China for many, many years,” he said. “That’s one of the things we are going to be talking about.”The un­or­tho­dox location of the summit is intended to lessen the formality of the first meeting between the two leaders, White House aides said, and help establish a working relationship, if not rapport, between Trump and Xi after moments of tension during the U.S. election season.Xi will spend just over 24 hours here, including a working lunch on Friday, officials said. Xi and the Chinese delegation will not stay overnight at the resort but rather at a nearby hotel.The trappings of the president’s personal property will not mask the seriousness and urgency of the long list of topics that will be discussed.Trump has offered conflicting signals about his state of mind heading into the summit. He told business leaders in Washington this week that he had a “lot of respect” for Xi, but last week on Twitter he predicted the meeting would be a “very difficult one” because of the U.S. trade deficit with China.In an interview with the Financial Times last weekend, Trump said he would exhort Xi to put more pressure on Pyongyang to halt its nuclear and ballistic missile testing, which has violated U.N. Security Council resolutions. But he added that if Beijing failed to act, the United States would consider unilateral responses.An administration official told reporters on Tuesday that the “clock is very, very quickly running out” and all options are on the table, though the White House has declined to be specific. Hours later, North Korea executed another ballistic missile test that prompted a curt response from Tillerson, who said in a statement that the United States had spoken enough about North Korea and would have no further comment about its provocations.“It’s an urgent and global threat, and we see the North Korean weapons programs as increasingly destabilizing, both for Northeast Asia and for the globe,” Susan Thornton, the acting assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, told reporters Wednesday.Among the administration’s options, experts said, are sanctions on Chinese banks that do business with Pyongyang in a bid to restrict the flow of capital to North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un’s regime.“It’s certainly going to come up,” said a senior administration official, who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity to preview the discussions. “Ninety percent of North Korea’s external trade is with China. Even though we heard that China’s political influence may have diminished with North Korea, certainly its economic leverage has not. It is considerable.”On trade, Trump elevated grievances over China’s trade surplus to a centerpiece of his campaign, accusing Beijing repeatedly of devaluing its currency, even though economists have said the country has in recent years artificially inflated its value.As a candidate, Trump threatened to slap large tariffs on Chinese goods, though he has tempered such rhetoric since taking office, as more moderate views of his chief economic adviser Gary Cohn and senior adviser Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law, have balanced the harder-line nationalist views of senior adviser Stephen K. Bannon and Peter Navarro, director of the National Trade Council.At their dinner, Trump joked that Xi had yet to make any concessions in their early talks, but he added that the two “have developed a friendship.” Several hours later, Chinese state media reported that Trump had accepted Xi’s invitation to visit China, though no time or place was announced.Some U.S. foreign policy analysts cautioned that the summit is premature, given that Trump has yet to fill hundreds of higher-level staff positions at government agencies, including the Pentagon and State Department, and the administration’s China policy has not yet been clearly developed.The more informal setting at Mar-a-Lago also represents a risk, some analysts said. Trump entertained Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his estate in February, but only after the leaders of the two allied nations had first met at the White House. They then flew to Mar-a-Lago and played 27 holes of golf at two nearby Trump-branded golf courses.Unlike Abe, Xi did not stop at the White House, nor will he and Trump hit the links. Xi banned party leaders from playing golf and shut down scores of courses in China in a crackdown on corruption.In 2013, President Barack Obama invited Xi to Sunnylands, a lush estate in Southern California, for a first summit in an attempt to break the ice. The meeting had mixed success, helping lead to later breakthroughs on climate efforts and a reduction of Chinese cybertheft against U.S. businesses. In other areas, however, including maritime security and human rights, relations between Obama and Xi soured.“Our presidents should stop trying to use a personal touch with Chinese leaders. It doesn’t work,” said Michael Auslin, an Asia expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. “They have their interests, we have our interests. A D.C. meeting shows we can focus on interests, which is what the Chinese expect. Sunnylands was a failure by every measure. This has the same potential.”
https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/senate-poised-for-historic-clash-over-supreme-court-nominee-neil-gorsuch/2017/04/06/40295376-1aba-11e7-855e-4824bbb5d748_story.html?utm_term=.2674d7811d9a
Senate Republicans go ‘nuclear,’ pave the way for Gorsuch confirmation to Supreme CourtRepublicans on Thursday cleared the way for Judge Neil Gorsuch to be confirmed to the U.S. Supreme Court, overcoming a historic Democratic blockade by changing the rules of the U.S. Senate — a move that highlighted the fierce partisanship that has seized Congress.The long-anticipated rules change now means that all presidential nominees for executive branch positions and the federal courts need only a simple-majority vote to be confirmed by senators.The GOP decision to ram through the rules change is also likely to further divide an increasingly partisan Senate. Several senators openly fretted that eliminating the minority party’s right to block high court nominees could lead to the end of filibusters on legislation — effectively transforming the Senate’s traditional role in the legislative process as the slower, more deliberative chamber.The ultimate confirmation of Gorsuch, which is expected sometime on Friday, represents a major victory, however, for President Trump as well as for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who refused to even consider President Barack Obama’s nominee after Justice Antonin Scalia died in February 2016.[McConnell: ‘Nuclear option’ helps Senate. McCain: ‘Whoever says that is a stupid idiot.’]View GraphicVote count: How the Senate changed its rules and confirmed GorsuchThe unflinching discipline displayed by McConnell (R-Ky.) in rejecting pleas from Democrats for a hearing on Judge Merrick Garland enraged them and prompted demands for a Gorsuch blockade by their progressive base. But the Democrats’ high-profile filibuster had fizzled by midday Thursday after McConnell moved to alter the rules and received the backing of his entire Republican caucus.As he left the Senate chamber, the usually reserved McConnell flashed a bit of showmanship — he high-fived some colleagues, awkwardly embraced Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) and gave a thumbs-up to photographers.The majority leader argued that ending the filibuster for high court nominees will actually decrease partisan tensions in the Senate and return the upper chamber to a time when filibusters weren’t so commonly used to block nominations.“This will be the first and last partisan filibuster of a Supreme Court nomination,” McConnell vowed ahead of Thursday’s votes.Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) responded by warning that “the consequences for the Senate and for the future of the Supreme Court will be far-reaching.”And Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.), who supports Gorsuch but opposed the rules change, said it was “everybody’s fault” that the Senate invoked the “nuclear option” and no longer requires 60 votes to confirm Supreme Court nominees. Manchin declared that Republicans will “rue the day that this happened” if they lose their majority.George Washington “had it right” about the Senate, Manchin said. “We’re the saucer. Should be, anyway. Should be cooling off that tea. . . . The hot tea’s going to scald you now. It’s going to burn you.”(Bastien Inzaurralde,Jayne Orenstein,Whitney Leaming/The Washington Post)[The Daily 202: The legislative filibuster will be at risk now that the Senate has gone nuclear]Republicans, determined to restore the conservative tilt of the Supreme Court since Scalia’s unexpected death, worked in lockstep on Thursday to see that Gorsuch would ultimately be confirmed. They remained remarkably united on the three votes needed to set Gorsuch on a glide path to confirmation.By 1 p.m. on Thursday, most of the drama was over. On a vote of 55 to 45, all Republicans and three Democrats voted to proceed to final debate on Gorsuch, 49, a Denver-based judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit. Senators at that point had the option of using as many as 30 hours for debate.Thursday was the second time in less than four years that senators voted to reshape the way they offer advice and consent to a president on executive branch and judicial nominees. In 2013, Democrats — angered by years of Republican blockades on Obama’s nominees — pushed through a rules change that allowed all executive branch nominees and lower-court picks to be confirmed with a simple majority vote. But Democrats did not include Supreme Court nominees as part of the changes, believing that lifetime appointments to the nation’s highest court should be handled differently.Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), a past critic of invoking the nuclear option, said negotiations to prevent the rules change failed this time because of what the Senate has become.“There’s such a profound lack of trust, and that’s what many of us are committed to trying to rebuild,” she said. “We need to make very clear to the leaders on both sides that there’s no support for curtailing our existing ability to filibuster legislation.”Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) agreed that the clash was “hard to avoid” because Republicans saw Gorsuch as such an indisputably qualified nominee and Democrats had deep concerns about him.As it had for much of the past few weeks, Garland’s name hovered over the proceedings in a way that was impossible to miss.Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) stridently faulted McConnell for blocking Garland, saying that “the senator from Kentucky has made history. . . . He made history in denying a presidential nominee the opportunity for a hearing and a vote which had never, never happened before.”Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) conceded that Democrats “are still bitter about Merrick Garland and, you know, I can’t blame them for that.” But he added, “If the roles were reversed they would have just tromped all over us. I mean, you know, they’d have done the same thing.”The carefully staged deconstruction of the Senate tradition began Thursday with a “cloture vote” — a special feature of Senate procedure that ends debate on a bill or nomination, allowing the process to move to a final vote. Schumer and McConnell looked on from their desks at the front of the Senate chamber just a few feet apart as the voting began. Schumer took gulps of water between conversations with Durbin, his top deputy, and aides. McConnell sat calmly at his desk with a solemn expression.Other senators sat patiently reading, checking their smartphones or filing in and out of the Senate cloakrooms as the clerk called the roll.“It was very sanitary. Unemotional. Telegraphed in advance. Planned in advance,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.).[Here’s your guide for dummies to Neil Gorsuch’s confirmation to the Supreme Court]After about 30 minutes, McConnell stood and switched his vote on advancing Gorsuch from “yes” to “no” — a parliamentary tactic allowing him to bring up the nomination again and to begin moves aimed at changing the rules.The two Senate leaders then launched a series of procedural maneuvers that culminated with the rules change. McConnell first raised a “point of order” to suggest that Gorsuch’s nomination could be advanced with a simple majority rather than the usual 60 votes. Schumer responded by unsuccessfully moving to delay Gorsuch’s nomination and to adjourn the Senate. Then senators voted, with Republicans prevailing.McConnell’s move was the culmination of nearly 14 months of work by the majority leader, who insisted just hours after Scalia died in February 2016 that his seat would remain open for the next president to fill. Since the start of this year, Gorsuch’s confirmation has sat atop his to-do list.His gloating — reserved as it was — was criticized by wary Democrats.“My GOP colleagues high fived each other after voting to damage pillars of our democracy. This is no cause for celebration,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said on Twitter.But Republicans remained cheery. Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.), casting his first vote on a nomination to the high court, paused before heading to the Senate floor to record a message using Snapchat. He adjusted the camera to make sure the shot included a statue of Benjamin Franklin behind him.“It’ll be great to have a fellow Westerner on the court!” he said of Gorsuch, who is from Colorado.No Supreme Court nominee has ever been blocked by a single-party filibuster. Abe Fortas, nominated to be chief justice in 1968, was the only nominee to get blocked on the cloture vote, by a bipartisan coalition that had enough votes to defeat his nomination outright.Gorsuch’s nomination was announced in late January, and three days of confirmation hearings began on March 20 in the Senate Judiciary Committee. Formal debate on his nomination officially began Tuesday and was dominated into Wednesday by Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), one of the Senate’s most liberal members, who spoke overnight for more than 15 hours against Gorsuch.Merkley, among other Democrats, signaled on Thursday that beyond concerns with Gorsuch, they would not necessarily support restoring Senate traditions if they retake control of the chamber.“We can’t unilaterally disarm,” Merkley said.But Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) warned that the change to Senate rules “makes it less likely you’re going to have centrist, moderate nominees on the Supreme Court.”Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), who grilled Gorsuch on campaign finance laws during the confirmation hearings, argued that no deal between the parties to maintain a filibuster would prevent Republicans from jamming through a future nominee if the court’s balance was at stake.Asked what he was thinking as he walked to the Senate floor to vote on Gorsuch, Whitehouse said one word: “Inevitability.”David Weigel and Kelsey Snell contributed to this report.
