https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-04-11/how-to-tell-if-democrats-are-gaining-momentum-for-2018
How to Tell If Democrats Are Gaining Momentum for 2018
There is a lot of needless hype about special elections and what they mean for Democrats’ chances for taking the House in the 2018 midterms. But don't dismiss all of it: Success in these contests really could make or break their chances, and for a reason that is not very hyped at all.

The second House special election of this cycle is Tuesday in the very Republican fourth district of Kansas, where voters will replace Mike Pompeo, who Trump promoted to CIA director.  The first was in a very Democratic district in California, and two Democrats advanced to the final round under that state's "top two" system. 

There's been some interest in the Kansas contest because Republicans have been spending money in what should be an easy win. But it could also be a case of overkill, given how much money there is in politics these days. Still, the Democrats are likely to do better there than they did in 2016, just as they did even better in the California special. 

Instagram: Instagram post by Jon Ossoff
If Democrat James Thompson can even come close in Kansas, we're going to hear plenty of hype about the 2018 midterms, and the hype will turn up to 11 if Democrats win either in Georgia's 6th district (initial contest on April 18, with a runoff likely to follow) or in Montana (May 25). Both are Republican seats, but much more competitive than Kansas 4. Even if Democrats go 0-for-3 in these races, you'll hear lots of people saying that coming close in Republicans seats proves Democrats have the momentum going into 2018.

It may seem reasonable to draw that connection, but it's mostly wrong. Presidential approval and the general political atmosphere do have an effect on special elections, so we can expect Donald Trump's unpopularity to hurt Republicans, as it will (if it continues) in the regularly scheduled midterms. Measuring the size of that effect in a handful of atypical, off-year contests won't really tell us anything about what will happen in 2018 that we didn't already know. Special elections just aren't useful as hints of what will happen in the next regular general election; there's just way too much noise in individual contests. 

However, incumbency still matters -- so a Democratic win in Georgia 6 would increase the Democrats' chances in that seat in 2018, and therefore reduce by one the overall number of seats they need to gain a House majority. Democrats will hold 194 seats after the California vacancy is filled, leaving them 24 short of the 218 needed. Every single seat helps.

The outcome of special elections could affect the midterms for another reason. Right now, dozens of skilled politicians are deciding whether 2018 is a good year to run for higher office. Dozens of incumbents are choosing whether to seek re-election or to retire. That's at the statewide and U.S. House levels; add in state legislatures and local offices and hundreds are making those decisions. The more they all believe it will be a good year for Democrats, the more likely Democratic candidates will step up. By the same token, more Republican politicians will retreat. 

In campaigns for Congress and state legislatures, the talent of candidates matter enormously. Incumbency is important (certainly in U.S. House elections), so every Republican who retires rather than face a tough race opens up an improved chance for Democrats to pick up a seat. And while Democrats are currently enjoying a windfall of first-time candidates -- which almost certainly is good for the party in the long run -- research on House elections shows that experienced politicians who have won any previous election tend to be the most successful candidates. Those candidates tend to be most sensitive to perceptions about the partisan electoral climate, in large part because they may have to give up a position they currently hold in order to run for higher office. 

In this way, expectations about elections can become self-fulfilling prophesies. Special elections can contribute to those expectations, even if rationally no new information gets produced (in other words, if all those special elections do is demonstrate the predictable consequences of Trump's low approval ratings). 

So mostly resist the commotion around these elections, which at best will shift one or two seats to the Democrats and may well just return same-party candidates from each open seat. But don't ignore them completely; they still can matter, even if the fuss is overblown. 

I'm a big fan of U.S. institutions over their British cousins, but I have to admit that "by-elections" is a much better term for these not-all-that-special events than "special elections." 

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.

