https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2017-trump-100-days-economy/
What Trump’s Done—or Undone—for Business in 100 Days
President Donald Trump came into office with big promises for turbo-charging the economy and unleashing American business, promoting an agenda of tax cuts, lightened regulatory burden and 4 percent economic growth.

Weeks before his election, he went to Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, to offer a “contract” with American voters on what he would achieve in his first 100 days. Among the terms, removal of regulatory restrictions on energy production, a tougher stance on trade and a promise to win passage of a spate of legislation. He wants massive tax cuts, a tariff on U.S. companies that lay off workers to move production offshore, a $1 trillion infrastructure package and the repeal and replacement of Obamacare. All completed by April 29.

As he reaches the 100-day mark on Saturday, Trump hasn’t been shy about celebrating his record. He says no president has done more in that period. Well, in the same span, Franklin Roosevelt won passage of key parts of the New Deal. Barack Obama had passed his economic stimulus and expanded health insurance coverage for children. Despite an election recount that delayed his transition, George W. Bush had at least introduced the education legislation that became his No Child Left Behind Act.

So, what has Trump accomplished? His biggest early achievement could have consequences for decades: nomination and confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, who had a record of ruling in favor of businesses as an appeals court judge. Beyond that, what he’s undone may be more important than what he’s done.

Using the Congressional Review Act, a little-known law signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996, Trump and the Republican-led Congress have reversed recent Obama regulations ranging from pollution limits to internet privacy safeguards.

Thirteen Acts Signed by Trump to Roll Back Regulations
Sources: The White House, BGOV, Bloomberg reporting
That makes up 13 of the 28 pieces of legislation Trump has signed—the White House says that’s the most in the period since Harry Truman. But despite Republican majorities in the House and Senate, he hasn’t yet signed into law any of his major policy priorities. He’s signed eight laws that have been ceremonial or procedural, such as renaming a clinic or appointing a board member. His most consequential legislation continues a program allowing veterans to use private medical facilities under certain circumstances.

When he couldn’t wipe out a regulation with the stroke of a pen, he’s used executive orders to delay their start and begin the opening stages of rolling them back. By Saturday, Trump will have signed more than 30 executive orders, more than any president at this point since Franklin Roosevelt, the White House says. Some of them have far-reaching effects, others simply order his administration to begin studying a problem.

Sources: The White House, U.S. National Archives and Records Administration, Bloomberg reporting
Those moves have the potential to save the economy more than $18 billion per year in complying with regulatory costs, according to the American Action Forum, a conservative-leaning think tank. An executive order calling for two rules to be rolled back for each new one created could go even further.

Trump’s given one of the biggest boosts to the energy industry by unilaterally dismantling some of the broad government-wide architecture Obama built to combat climate change and by ordering his agencies to begin unwinding other environmental rules. His State Department reversed the Obama administration’s rejection of TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline.

Trump’s also boosted his pro-business image by hosting 14 meetings in his first 100 days with 84 chief executive officers at the White House to solicit their advice on how to stimulate the economy. Some of that has already turned into action, like an executive order encouraged by the auto industry to give them more time to dispute the fuel-mileage and emissions standards set by the Obama administration.

