http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/tapper-ivanka-refugee-tweets_us_58e81d97e4b058f0a02f6748?section=us_politics
CNN’s Jake Tapper Flings Refugee Contradiction At Ivanka Trump’s Pro-Strike Tweet
After the military strikes on Syria, Ivanka Trump tweeted her support of her dad’s response to “crimes against humanity.” She got a lightning-fast rejoinder from CNN’s Jake Tapper, who asked if she didn’t see any “disconnect” between that sentiment and President Donald Trump’s attempts to ban Syrian refugees.

“The times we are living in call for difficult decisions. Proud of my father for refusing to accept these horrendous crimes against humanity,” Ivanka tweeted Friday morning, the day after the president ordered the nation’s first direct military assault on the government of President Bashar Assad after a chemical weapon attack on Syrian civilians.

Tapper snapped back on Twitter: “How do you feel about his proposed ban on Syrian refugees from entering the US? Do you see any disconnect there at all?”

The times we are living in call for difficult decisions - Proud of my father for refusing to accept these horrendous crimes against humanity https://t.co/yV0oJuC9dE

— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) April 7, 2017
@IvankaTrump How do you feel about his proposed ban on Syrian refugees from entering the US? Do you see any disconnect there at all? Thanks

— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 7, 2017
The first daughter didn’t respond, but an Ivanka Trump Twitter defender and onetime Reuters contributor Cate Long blasted Tapper for crossing the line from “news reporter” to “internet troll.”

He responded: “It’s a sincere question to a senior WH adviser on Twitter. I’d love to ask her in an interview of course. ... Not sure why your concern is more for one of the most powerful people in the world than for the most vulnerable, but have a great weekend.”

@jaketapper @IvankaTrump hey Mr. Tapper. There is a clear dividing line between news reporter and internet troll. And you just crossed.

— Cate Long (@cate_long) April 7, 2017
@cate_long @IvankaTrump No, it's a sincere question to a senior WH adviser on Twitter. I'd love to ask her in an interview of course.

— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 7, 2017
@cate_long @IvankaTrump Not sure why your concern is more for one of the most powerful people in the world than for the most vulnerable but have a great weekend.

— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 7, 2017
Donald Trump said Thursday he was shocked at the chemical weapon attack on “helpless men and women, children” and “beautiful babies” in Syria. But his administration is currently battling barriers in court as it tries to carry out his executive order barring Syrian refugees from entering the U.S. During his presidential campaign, he called such a ban “a matter of terrorism.” He also vowed then to eject the 12,000 Syrian refugees currently living in the U.S.: “If I win, they’re going back.”

There’s no change on the refugee issue, despite the U.S. attack on Syria. Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, Trump’s national security adviser, said the refugee issue “wasn’t discussed as any part of the deliberations” for the strikes, according to a White House pool report.

Trump has shown “callous disregard for Syrians attempting to flee for their lives,” Margaret Huang, the executive director of Amnesty International USA, said in a statement Friday  . She called for the administration to immediately revoke its position on refugees.

