http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/first-read-s-morning-clips-100-days-controversy-n750581
First Read’s Morning Clips: 100 Days of Controversy
TRUMP AGENDA: 100 days of controversies

NBC's Sam Petulla lays out just how historically unpopular Trump is so far.

And NBC's Andrew Rafferty sums up the controversies of Trump's first 100 days.

The New York Times, on Trump's double standard for grading his opening months: "Trump Wants It Known: Grading 100 Days Is 'Ridiculous' (but His Were the Best)"

One of us(!) has even more data from our latest poll: on health care, immigration, free trade and more.

The big development for shutdown watchers, from Leigh Ann Caldwell: "President Donald Trump has indicated that he's willing to back away from his demand that a government funding bill include money to build a wall on the Southern border, a move that could help clear the way for Congress to avoid a shutdown. A senior administration official tells NBC News that the president is open to obtaining funding for the border wall in the regular appropriations process for 2018 later this year instead of insisting it be included as part of the large spending bill to keep the government's lights on past this week."

What's going on with Trump's tax proposals? The New York Times has you covered here.

More, from the Washington Post: "President Trump is pursuing a drastic cut in the corporate tax rate, a move that is likely to grow the national debt and breach a long-held Republican goal of curbing federal borrowing. The president has instructed advisers to propose cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent, according to White House officials who said they were not authorized to speak publicly about the plan. The rate reduction — which independent budget experts say could cost the federal government $2.4 trillion over a decade — is larger than what House Republicans had proposed in their own plan."

And the Wall Street Journal lays out five roadblocks in the way of the White House's proposal.

Trump plans to impose a 20% tariff on Canadian softwood-lumber imports, writes the Wall Street Journal. More: "In the lead-up to the decision on lumber duties, U.S.-Canada trade watchers said the Trump administration's move on timber could serve as an opening gambit in laying out what he wants Canada to put on the table as part of the North American Free Trade Agreement renegotiations, which have yet to begin in earnest."

Paul Ryan is under growing pressure to deliver a win for Trump, POLITICO writes.


OFF TO THE RACES: Perriello gets nod from Elizabeth Warren; Northam up with first ad

GA-06: Jon Ossoff's campaign is boosting its field spending, Roll Call notes.

MT-AL: Greg Gianforte is calling opponent Rob Quist "Nancy Pelosi in a cowboy hat."

VA-GOV: Tom Perriello has picked up the endorsement of Elizabeth Warren.

Ralph Northam is up with his first ad, emphasizing that he'll fight Trump.

TX-23: The Washington Post looks at Rep. Will Hurd's big re-election challenge.

